 Three suspects, aged between 35 and 44 years old, are expected in court soon after they were arrested by the King Williams Town SAPS Task Team at Ginsberg, near King Williams Town, in the early hours of Tuesday morning for attempted murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm. "Task team members were patrolling in the CBD area when they spotted a suspicious white Nissan bakkie at Walker Street, King Williams Town.   "Police tried to stop it and it went through a red robot and they then switched on their blue lights and the bakkie stopped," described police spokesperson, Captain Siphokazi Mawisa. "Two male alighted from the bakkie and the other one leaned on the vehicle that was when the driver decided to drive off causing the man to fall on the ground - police arrested him. "The other suspect fled on foot and police gave chase and he started firing shots at the police and the police retaliated and fired back wounding him." Captain Mawisa said that an unlicensed 9mm pistol, with 14 rounds was recovered on scene; the serial number had been filled off. "The suspect who was wounded has been taken to hospital for treatment under police guard and the other suspect arrested. "Police later followed up on information they received that the other suspect, believed to be the driver, was walking on a gravel road between Wimpy (Engen Garage) and Ginsberg, they went to that area and managed to apprehend the suspect," she added. "Upon investigation the suspect took police to a place in Wesbank where he dumped the Nissan bakkie that they were using. He was immediately arrested as the third suspect." Captain Wawisa said that the suspects were charged for attempted murder and possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition. They will appear at King Williams Town Magistrate Court soon. The Acting Station Commander of King Williams Town SAPS, Lieutenant Colonel Khumbulani Bhele thanked the SAPS members for job well done in ensuring that the perpetrators are behind bars and the firearm used is recovered. “This sends a message that Police are committed in fighting crime and that we will not tolerate firearms in the streets and we will ensure that citizens are safe and secure during this Festive season,” he added. 