 Voted as a Best Value establishment in 2017 by AccomoDirect.com, Lauricedale Country House and Garden Rooms, which lies just off the Kragga Kamma Road, on the outskirts of Port Elizabeth, offers both peace and tranquility. This beautiful location is bordered by Port Elizabeth’s out of the way beaches - Sardinia Bay, Kini Bay and Seaview, and is occupied by ‘plots’ or smallholdings and farms giving it a spacious countryside atmosphere.   Sardinia Bay is definitely one of Port Elizabeth’s most undiscovered tourist attractions and offers long walks on uninterrupted sand, horse trails and sandboarding. I recently escaped to Lauricedale Country House and Garden Rooms and had the most welcoming experience by the owners, Clive and Jackie Long, whom I found to be willing to go the extra mile to ensure that every guest enjoys their stay. It’s no wonder Lauricedale Country House receives such good reviews. The Country House and Garden Rooms combined can accommodate up to 28 people sharing making it perfect for weddings, team-building, year-end functions and other special occasions. The communal areas are spacious and include large lounge areas equipped with a TV, full DSTV, Wi-Fi access, a fully equipped kitchen and a braai area for both the Country House and Garden Rooms. All the rooms and communal areas are clean and have a beautiful rustic/temporary décor. While the Garden Rooms have en-suite bedrooms, the Country House has one en-suite bedroom. The other two rooms share a bathroom. Lauricedale Country House and Garden Rooms offers ample space for team activities – including a swimming pool, volleyball net, basketball hoop and it’s very own Equestrian Park. There are also 10 reputable wedding venues all within close proximity of the premises and include popular wedding venues. So, whether you’re looking to get hitched, looking for a corporate team-building venue with loads of fun activities or trying to throw the perfect year-end function, this is the prefect venue for the occasion. For more information, contact Jackie on 082 825 8576 or at info@lauricedale.co.za or visit www.lauricedale.co.za.   