 The Presidency has announced a 4% salary adjustment for members of the National Executive and Deputy Ministers for 2017/18. Following the recommendations of the Independent Commission for the Remuneration of Public Office Bearers, the Presidency on Thursday outlined the salary adjustments for public office bearers. The 4% adjustment also applies to Members of Parliament (from the position of the Speaker / the Chairperson of NCOP to House Chairperson), Members of the Provincial Executive and the Speaker of the Provincial Legislature and all judges. “Salaries and allowances of different categories of public office-bearers are determined by the President after taking into account, amongst others, the recommendations of the Commission,” said the Presidency on Thursday. On Monday, the Commission -- which is mandated to make annual recommendations concerning salaries and/or the upper limits of the salaries, allowances, benefits, and the resources required by some public office-bearers to enable them to perform their respective duties effectively -- published its annual remuneration recommendations. It recommended that they be increased. “After considering, amongst others, the recommendations of the Commission and the performance of the economy, President Jacob Zuma has accepted the Commission's recommendations for all categories of public office bearers, except for magistrates. The Magistrates Act, 1993, requires salaries of the magistrates to be approved by Parliament,” the Presidency said. President Zuma has requested Parliament to approve that salaries of magistrates be adjusted by 5.5%. The Presidency said a 4.5% salary adjustment will apply to MPs, from the position of Chief Whip (majority party) to member: National Assembly / permanent delegate: NCOP. Members of Provincial Legislature, from position of Deputy Speaker to Member of Provincial Legislature, will also get a 4.5% increase. This also includes traditional leadership (King/Queen). Traditional leadership -- from position of chairperson: National House of Traditional Leaders (NHTL) to full time deputy chairperson: Provincial House of Traditional Leader (PHTL) -- will get a 5% adjustment. A 6% adjustment will apply to traditional leadership (full time member of NHTL and full time member of PHTL) and the sitting allowances of all members of the NHTL and PHTL. Senior traditional leaders will receive an 8% adjustment. The Commission further recommended for the adjustment of the remuneration of headmen and headwomen to R106 106, and the extension of the medical aid benefits currently applicable to traditional leaders with effect from 1 April 2017. - SAnews.gov.za 