 Recently, in October 2017, Transnet Port Terminals Ngqura Container Terminal (NCT) recorded the highest units ever handled in NCT’s history, with over 81 927 Twenty Foot Equivalent Units (TEU) passing through the Eastern Cape terminal. This remarkable milestone not only bodes well for the economy of the region and the country, but also shows impressive volume performance despite abnormally adverse weather conditions that affected service delivery to clients and sluggish economic growth that is impacting both imports and exports. “We are delighted that the terminal was able to handle this kind of volume while overcoming a number of challenges. It was really a team effort that allowed us to reach this milestone that included our staff collaborating with customers and other Transnet Operating Divisions. Our committed and highly skilled employees are always searching for different ways to improve the operational performance of the terminal and most importantly, to meet and exceed our customers’ needs. "The NCT terminal prides itself on delivering exceptional service by our talented workforce that is supported by state-of-the-art equipment and modern technology. "Not only is the milestone of volumes handled a credit to our committed Transnet Port Terminals (TPT) staff, but it also demonstrates our capacity and readiness to handle greater volumes,” stated Wandisa Vazi, TPT’s NCT Acting Terminal Manager.   Of the milestone volumes handled, the terminal recorded 19% of these were imports, 18% were exports and 63% were transshipments. This volume split also creates confidence in the transshipment strategy, which has seen the majority of volumes being transshipped for the month. “We are grateful for the support that our customers and stakeholders have afforded us. It further cements the shared vision of both TPT and customers to growing volumes whenever an opportunity presents itself. "We are also encouraged by the increase in the transshipment volumes which is testament to the fact that Ngqura Container Terminal is ideally positioned to service the east and west markets,” concluded Siya Mhlaluka, TPT General Manager Eastern Cape Terminals. Since starting operations in 2009, the Ngqura Container Terminal has complemented the South African port system as a transhipment hub.  The terminal has increased South African trade with the world, generating much needed jobs in the economy while promoting international trade for SADC countries.    