 Nelson Mandela Bay’s affordability, its product offering, lack of traffic congestion and improved lifestyle opportunities is strategically placing it as the next destination city of choice following the robust development of Durban and Cape Town over the past decades. Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, delivered this message at a stakeholder participation session with prominent players from the Real Estate industry in Nelson Mandela Bay at the Port Elizabeth Athenaeum on Wednesday. “I have the benefit of seeing the city through relatively new eyes as I am living here for just over two and a half years. Before that I lived in Cape Town where traffic patterns can have a severe impact on your travelling time to work during peak hour. “When entrepreneurs move to a city, they not only take their immediate families, they also take their employees and their families with, which means population numbers increase as well as congestion on the roads. “This happened in Durban and Cape Town as entrepreneurs from Johannesburg moved their to improve their lifestyles. Port Elizabeth is the next destination city as properties are very expensive in other cities. “The price you pay for a flat in Cape Town, is similar to that of a home in an incredible suburban environment in Nelson Mandela Bay. “We have the fourth best climate, incredibly beautiful spaces and exceptional properties of great value. If we can just lift our sights a little bit, overcome current challenges, improve our self-image and sell the city more, we can experience outstanding growth and development,” Mayor Trollip said. In the same vein, Member of the Mayoral Committee for Economic Development, Agriculture and Tourism, Andrew Whitfield, maintained an upbeat tone and said visitor numbers are improving. “Our tourism numbers are increasing every year with an upward curve since 2012. It is almost back at the 2010 figures when we had about 260 000 foreign arrivals during the Soccer World Cup. There is tremendous potential for further growth in this sector. “To leverage this growth we are improving our product offering with the revival of the Apple Express, Route 67, the Campanile and putting first class events in place amongst other initiatives,” MMC Whitfield said. The participants, all members of the Real-Estate Network Services (RNS), offered to play an advisory role to the city when required and to play a more pro-active role to develop Nelson Mandela Bay in the interest of all its residents. Member of the Mayoral Committee for Budget and Treasury, Cllr Retief Odendaal, said the sale of pockets of prime municipal land is under consideration and plans to deal with the refurbishment of infrastructure include a long term loan. He further assured the real estate industry that the outdated Outdoor Policy of the municipality is under review and a committee has been established to ensure that it happens. “The limitations dictated by the policy are definitely not conducive to earning an income,” MMC Odendaal said. More similar sessions are planned in future. 