 The Theescombe area of Port Elizabeth has become synonymous with wedding and conference venues. The area is just far enough outside of the hustle and bustle of the city to be called countryside, but close enough for a comfortable drive home after an event. Being in the country, the air is fresh, the sounds more relaxing and the pace a little slower making it a great breakaway for corporate conferences or functions. As it is relatively close to the suburbs, attendees will not need to be provided with overnight accommodation. The oldest conference venue in the area and, arguably one of the most professional, is Thatchwoods.  Thatchwoods operates off the same premises as the well-known Holmeleigh Farm and, both being well sign posted, are easy to find. As a conference venue, Thatchwoods can accommodate up to 50 conference goers in-doors but, thanks to their large open fields, the sky’s the limit for any outdoor events such as year-end braais or team building activities. Owner and hands-on manager at Thatchwoods, Christie Handley, says; “We can accommodate small, problem solving teams and up 50 delegates in cinema style in our center.” Thatchwoods has become famous for their delicious Sunday lunches, which are often booked out many weeks in advance. Thus, their catering team is highly-experienced and their refreshments and meals delicious. “Our packages include tea, Peacock coffee, juice and our delicious scones and muffins on arrival. We also serve a two course lunch and afternoon tea, coffee and biscuits. “Outdoor catering is no problem either and, in the past, we have catered for groups exceeding 800 delegates,” adds Christie. Thatchwoods’ conference center has a fully-licensed bar and an area that is elevated above the rest of the floor that can be used as a podium. The windows on the south side offer sweeping views of Theescombe all the way to the Indian Ocean. “Get in touch with our conference center to plan your conference or team building session.  We have plenty of experience and a lot of great ideas to make your event both memorable and effective,” concludes Christie. To find out more, call Thatchwoods on 041 379 2906 or email starters@mweb.co.za or visit thatchwoods.co.za.  