 Following the recent raging fires in the Van Stadens Gorge area in the Eastern Cape, manufacturer of prefabricated buildings – Kwikspace Modular Buildings (Kwikspace) – was quick off the mark to provide units when most of the buildings at Woodridge College and Preparatory School were burnt to the ground, forcing non-local borders and staff to evacuate the premises. The school suffered devastating losses to its reception hall, main hall, some of the hostels, school church, junior classrooms and music school. Additionally, a number of private residences burnt down, displacing 39 teachers, members of ground staff and their families. On 21 June – only a few days after firefighters had to surrender to the flames – Kwikspace brought relief by supplying 16 classrooms, four ablution units and an office unit. Comments Glen Moss, Kwikspace Regional Sales Manager Eastern Cape: “Time was not on anybody’s side as the school was set to re-open on the 4th of July. As the leading provider of quality prefab rentals, we rose to the occasion to provide a reliable, temporary solution, thereby creating a safe, clean learning and working environment for its learners and staff.” A total of 21 units were provided, covering nearly 1 000 m2 and accommodating up to 20 students per structure. Kwikspace units are manufactured in a controlled factory environment according to strict ISO (International Standards Organisation) standards. Moss adds: “It was a privilege to be in a position, with the stockholding Kwikspace carries, to be able to assist Woodridge with the classrooms and ablutions that the school needed. Working with such a dedicated, highly motivated team was a pleasure.” Comments Derek Bradley, College Headmaster: “Woodridge College recognises the impact that these units will have in restoring order and normality to our daily lives, and we are thus very pleased with the flexibility, efficiency and professional services offered by Kwikspace.” For further press information please contact dei Gratia on +27 701 3716 or at kathryn@dei-gratia.co.za. Kwikspace Modular Buildings can be contacted on +21 11 617 8000. For more information visit www.kwikspace.co.za.   