 Motherwell Station Commander, Brigadier Ernie Neveling, has issued a strong warning to perpetrators of domestic violence following incidents that occurred over the weekend. In one of the incidents, a 25-year-old man is alleged to have attacked his 40-year-old wife and his one-year-old baby with a hammer. "We have noticed how increased incidents of assault have been committed by men on women, mostly family related, indoors and with alcohol playing a role. As SAPS we cannot just sit idle and observe. We will arrest these perpetrators and oppose bail at court," said Brig Neveling. According to police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge, on Saturday, at about 21:30, a husband residing in NU9, Motherwell, brutally beat his wife of 40 with a hammer. "She was having their one-year-old baby on her back, and one of the blows hit the side of the baby's face. "This followed after she confronted him for having another woman in the house in her absence. Both the woman and her child needed medical attention after the attack," described Captain Beetge. He said that in another incident, which happened on 30 October, an alcohol-induced argument erupted over a cellphone between a 40-year-old man and a 35-year-old woman. He added that the women was kicked so seriously that has she spent the past month in hospital. "On being released from hospital on Saturday, she opened the case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm at Motherwell police station," said Captain Beetge. He said that in two other unrelated cases on Saturday, two women (aged 24 and 33 years old) were beaten with beer bottles in their faces at NU29 during an alcohol-related brawl. Motherwell Cluster Commander, General Dawie Rabie expressed his concern that in many incidents cases are withdrawn by complainants soon afterwards and added: "On Friday, National Government Departments engaged in a discussion panel in Motherwell in terms of Gender Based Violence in efforts to create the way forward and establish new avenues to address Gender Based Violence by the broader Government and Civil Departments. "On Saturday, the National Launch of 16 Days of Activism of No Violence Against Women and Children took place right here in Nelson Mandela Bay. "It is a shame that domestic violence takes place in our communities' home environments, and in many cases under such increasing levels of violence. As SAPS we are urging our prosecuting authorities as well as other role playing departments to hear our communities' and SAPS plea to step up our focus on these crimes." 