 The high-profile Awards honour the achievements of women entrepreneurs and professionals, along with those in the corporate world and government, and play an important role in recognising the part that women play in the economy and the life of the city. “Not only do the awards give recognition where it is deserved, but they are often an impetus for women to reach even higher. Many of our finalists and winners have gone on to even greater success in their businesses and careers after going through the positive experience of participating in the Awards, and in doing so- pay it forward-…by inspiring those climbing the ladder towards success!” Nominations and entries for the awards are now open, and close on 23rd February 2018. Entrants must be nominated, and  need notbe members of the BWA. Entries are welcome for women in Nelson Mandela Bay and surrounding areas, with previous finalists having come from as far afield as the Garden Route. “Every year we discover women of high calibre who do amazing work in their working lives and in the community. These Awards are a wonderful opportunity to give recognition to women who have built up successful careers and businesses, often succeeding against the odds, and who play a significant role in empowering others to follow in their footsteps and as role models for the next generation of women leaders.”  The Awards are made in six categories – emerging entrepreneur, entrepreneur, social entrepreneur, corporate, professional, and government. An independent panel of judges representing a broad cross-section of the city’s leaders in business, government and civil society will select the winners from three finalists in each of the six categories. The winners will be announced at a Gala Dinner at the Boardwalk Convention Centre on 21st of June 2018. Please click on the links below to go directly to the nomination form on our website. Nomination Form:   http://www.bwasa.co.za/rbaa-nomination/nominate Criteria: http://www.bwasa.co.za/media/RBAA%20Criteria.pdf Nominees will be notified after the closing date of 23rd February 2018.   Image - the 2017 Investec Regional Business Achiever Awards winners. 