 It was a memorable weekend for locals who came in their hundreds to enjoy Transnet’s first-ever People’s Port Festival, which was held at the usually inaccessible Port Elizabeth Harbour. Filled with every kind of entertainment you can think of, there were many things to seen and experience for the eager crowds. For many, it was also an opportunity get an up close and personal look into the world of maritime careers and what really goes on down by the Port of Port Elizabeth. Small businesses from all over PE were present, with stalls and trucks that offered from food to potted plants - there was really no limit to what could be found at the Port Festival.  The highlights were when local adventurer and swimmer, Kyle Main, swam from the Port of Coega all the way to the PE Harbour. It is an 18km distance, which he managed to accomplish within five hours. MasterChef finalists, Siphokazi Mdlankomo and Claire Allen, also known for their hit YouTube show Short Chef Skinny Chef, cooked up a storm with cooking demonstrations for curious crowds. Masterton’s Coffee also hosted a demo of their various blends and equipment that contribute to their amazing coffee. Bocadillos Restaurant and Bakery had a pop-up restaurant open for the hungry guests to relax and enjoy their great sweets and dishes. Exhibitions were also open for people, who may have an interest in working in the maritime sector. Bayworld brought their mechanical dinosaur and a few sea turtles and snakes for the kids to see. There were cars were on display and people could experience virtual diving. There were also plenty of activities to participate in at the festival, with rock climbing, mechanical bull rides, as well as a street soccer tournament and amateur boxing tournament. On the main stage various acts could be seen throughout the day, from local musicians such as Mobi Dixon and Mafikizolo, as well as acrobats and hypnotists. On the ocean, plenty of activity could be seen, from yacht racing to tugboat rides, and even an NSRI demonstration, where you could see how rescuing of ships and sailors is done. Two ships were open for the public to enter and get a first-hand look at what life on the sea is like. The SA Agulhas, which had just returned from Antarctica, was open to board and some of its crew and researchers were available to interact with. A screening of the documentary about the SS Mendi was also shown. Without a doubt, the festival was a great success on both the Saturday and Sunday with crowds of people showing up for a rare glimpse of the Port. The weekend’s festivities concluded with a colourful display of fireworks. 