 The Chris Hani District Municipality (CHDM), in partnership with its all Local Municipalities, on Thursday embarked on a Support to Schools Programme as part of its efforts to promote the provision of quality education within the district. "The municipality remains committed in providing support to this cause as education is a fundamental right and one of the apex priorities of our government," the municipality said. "The Support to Schools Programme seeks to encourage and contribute to quality of education in schools across the district. It is also aimed to motivate learners and educators to work hard in sustaining their performance and to promote cleanliness in the learning environment." Prior to this initiative, the municipality adopted eight senior secondary schools focused on improving their performance. More than six hundred Grade 12 learners within the municipal jurisdiction significantly benefited for a period of five consecutive years. "Learning material which included school bags, mathematical sets, scientific calculators, pens were provided. Leaners also got study guides for Mathematics, Physical Science and Accounting. "The support to schools was intensified with the provision of temporal teachers where R800 000 was set aside for their stipends. Each school was allocated two temporal teachers focusing in critical positions such as Mathematics, Accounting and Mathematics," the municipality said. "This year, the CHDM will conduct school visits focused at cleaning school precincts across the district. As part of the programme, the Honourable Executive Mayor, Cllr Kholiswa Vimbayo, and the Mayoral Committee will hand over gardening tools and equipment as well as cleaning material to six top performing schools in the District." These include Lawn mowers, trimmers wheelbarrows, watering cans, and buckets amongst others. There will also be planting of trees in each of the schools. This two day programme is scheduled to commence from Thursday, 26 -27 January 2017 at 12h00 to ensure that learning and teaching is not disrupted in schools. The identified schools as follows: NAME OF SCHOOL  AREA NAME OF PRINCIPAL DATE Mcobololo Engcobo Mr Lugalo 26 January 2016 Ekuphumleni Enoch Mgijima Mr Ngalo 27 January 2016 J.A Calata Nxuba Yethemba Mrs Vorster 27 January 2016 Sifonondile Sakhisizwe Mr Kewana 27 January 2016 Emalahleni Free Mantle Mr Cele 27 January 2016 Cofimvaba Intsika Yethu Ms Sabata 27 January 2016  The Council is committed to continue its involvement in education and will work with the Department of Education, Local Municipalities and all relevant stakeholders to ensure sustained and impactful support in education. 