 History was recently made when Executive Mayor Athol Trollip officially opened the Veeplaas Business Hive, giving emerging businesses and aspiring entrepreneurs from Veeplaas and surrounding areas a significant boost in providing them with a range of services to boost their businesses. This business hive is the first of its kind in the township, the key objective being to create ease of access and convenience for township entrepreneurs, who often struggle to find the fees to travel back and forth to the CBD for the services provided by the Municipality at its incubator in Kwantu Towers, on the Vuyisile Mini Square. Some of the primary services provided by the centre are business start-up advice; drawing up business plans; access to internet services; workshops and various kinds of business training. Six local entrepreneurs officially received the keys to promising new futures and to their premises alongside the Incubator. The Business Hive in Veeplaas represents a reinforcement of one of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s key pillars: creating a City of Opportunity.  Addressing the community of Veeplaas and a number of local emerging business owners, Executive Mayor Trollip stated: “If you work hard and commit yourself to grow your business, the Municipality we will give our full support. We are doing this because we understand that the success of local business will not only benefit the owner, it will also assist in creating much-needed jobs and be an inspiration to others,” said the Executive Mayor. The centre will function as an incubator for Veeplaas and surrounding emerging businesses. It has been designed to capacitate local entrepreneurs into formidable and sustainable businesses. The centres are run under the guidance of the NMBM Economic Development, Tourism and Agriculture Directorate. Veeplaas Ward Councillor, Mbulelo Gidane, who welcomed the guests at the event, commented: “Whilst this might be an ordinary event for somebody else, it is a big day for the Veeplaas community. This incubator will change lives.” For further information, Veeplaas emerging businesses and aspiring business people may contact the Centre directly at 041 450 1940 or visit their Facebook page @The Business Place – Nelson Mandela Bay or website at www.tbp-nmb.co.za. Alternatively, they may also visit the newly opened Veeplaas Offices on the corner of Koyana and Kani Streets.   