 The case against controversial Nigerian televangelist and Senior pastor of the Jesus Dominion International church, Tim Omotoso, was postponed to January next year when he appeared again in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Tuesday - this time with Lusanda Solani and Zukiswa Sitho, the two women accused of recruiting and grooming young girls for him. The two women were accompanied by their husbands. The court heard that Solani would be going back to Durban on Tuesday. She was arrested after arriving in Port Elizabeth for a wedding. As part of her bail conditions, she will still be reporting to her nearest police station. The State Prosecutor, Nceba Ntelwa, also argued that the case be taken to High Court after they have received a certificate of centralisation of the case and other outstanding certificates. Ntelwa said that the centralisation certifcate ensures that the case is heard in one place since the investigation has been going on all over the country. The State will also be adding charges of racketeering to the numerous sexual and human trafficking charges that Omotoso already faces. He also faces an additional five charges relating to the Immigration Act. The case was postponed to the 29th of January 2018 and could be heard in the High Court after the National Director of Prosecutions has issued the centralisation certificates. Jesus Dominion International church members were again at the court and whispered “We love you Daddy” as Omotoso was led out of the courtroom. The 59-year-old pastor has been languishing at the St Albans Prison since his arrest on 20 April by the Hawks at the Port Elizabeth International Airport. Last week Thursday, he suffered another blow when the Port Elizabeth High Court threw out his bail appeal. Omotoso's wife, Taiwo, was also at the court and this time did not cover her face from the media - even waved at the Jesus Dominion International congregants while surrounded by her attorneys. The accused women, however, tried to stay inside the courtroom to prevent the media from taking their photos. Eventually, they came out with Jesus Dominion International church members covering them with umbrellas and posters while hurtling insults at the determined media.  