 The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has denied allegations that it used its vote to block the ousting of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, because it had been promised the Chairperson position for the municipality's Municipal Public Accounts Committee (MPAC). Motions of no confidence in Trollip and Council Speaker, Jonathan Lawack, were brought to Council on the 30th of November by the Patriotic Alliance's Marlon Daniels and the United Democratic Movement's (UDM) Mongameli Bobani.  Surprisingly, the motion against Trollip was proposed by Daniels, who in August tabled a motion of no confidence in Bobani, leading to Bobani's ouster as the Deputy Mayor. Ahead of that motion, Daniels and Bobani announced that they had decided to let bygones be bygones.  However, the EFF, who held the deciding vote, decided not to side with the parties that sought Trollip's and Lawack's ouster, thus the two survived the motions against them. In a post on his Facebook page, Councillor Daniels alleged; “EFF has been promised the MPAC chair for being loyal to Cllr Athol Trollip.” The MPAC Chairperson position was once occupied by theDemocratic Alliance's (DA) Cllr Lance Grootboom.  In a surprise Mayoral Committee reshuffle on Monday, Trollip moved him to head the Public Health portfolio, which had been vacant after the firing of Bobani and Daniels after him. 'EFF were neither promised nor are they occupying the MPAC Chairperson position' EFF Councillor, Zilindile Vena, told RNEWS that the Committee is established under Section 79 of the Municipal Structures Act and cannot be appointed by the Mayor, so the allegation by Cllr Daniels is untrue. “A candidate fit to take over the position can only be appointed at a council sitting, not by the Executive Mayor. Now the position hasn’t been occupied because the Council hasn’t appointed anyone. It is very important to note that the Council makes the decision for the MPAC position not the Mayor," Vena said. He also denied that the EFF is in some sort of co-operation agreement with the DA-led coalition in the Nelson Mandela Municipality. “The EFF is with all opposition parties because we agreed that we would work with them,” Vena described. “Hence, we voted with them last year and we have been participating with them throughout six months, we’re still in opposition.” He added that the EFF has relations with other parties, but people come first in all decisions they take. “We can remove any mayor because we have that power with our 5%. We have relations with all parties and we are analysing all of these parties; we are for the people and we are going to use our 5% for the people, hence we voted for the overtime policy/motion," Vena explained. “People must consult before evicting people. As I said, if its about relations and relationships, we are not with any party, we are with the EFF and we are with the people." 