 With the festive season fast approaching, traffic safety will once again be in the spotlight and unfortunately, according to the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape, Law Enforcement in the Eastern Cape Department has a staff of only 556 people. "Of this, 32 people are senior management and 534 are law enforcement officers," described Marshall von Buchenroder, the DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Transport.   "The only way to limit the carnage on our roads is to stop motorists from taking chances driving unroadworthy vehicles, overloading, speeding and drunk driving. This can be achieved by visible policing on our roads and by effective traffic law enforcement." Von Buchenroder said that in a reply to a legislature question he asked Eastern Cape Transport MEC, Wiziwe Tikana, she said no new appointments of additional staff were made in the 2014/15 or 2015/16 financial years, due to insufficient funding for the programme. "In 2016/17, 40 new interns were appointed and in the current financial year, 35 traffic officers were appointed." For the reply, click here "This leaves the province with a ratio of 1:1 456 traffic officers to registered roads users, which increases dramatically over the festive season when holidaymakers visit the province.  What is of further concern, is that the ratio goes up to 1:4 050 patrol cars to registered roads users due to a shortage of vehicles," said Von Buchenroder.  "Research has proven that most accidents occur late at night or in the early hours of the morning. This is the time when there is little or no law enforcement on our roads. The current operating system in the province for traffic officers is a two-shift system: from 06:00 to 14:00 and from 14:00 to 22:00. Thereafter officers operate on a standby system. In other words, if an official works beyond the standard hours, it is regarded as overtime. "With such a small staff the task at hand is mammoth. The department is trying its best under difficult circumstances.  There simply are not enough people to do the job." He said that the Eastern Cape is a growing province with 88 000 registered vehicles on the road at any given time. "The looming introduction of the demerit system (AARTO) will create more problems than solving them. There are much better ways to reduce road accidents and the lawlessness on our roads." Von Buchenroder said that the Democratic Alliance believes that within a well-run, a safe and caring province the following interventions are of utmost importance: "By doing so, the department will create a culture of a safe, law-abiding and visible law enforcement. That will ultimately see the birth of 24-hour traffic law enforcement on all our major road networks in the province." 