 The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS) has put in place measures to secure the 54th African National Congress (ANC) Elective Conference. The ruling ANC is holding its 54th national conference from 15-20 December at Nasrec, Johannesburg, which will see the party electing a new leadership and adopting various policies. In a statement on Thursday, the NATJOINTS said they had established a priority committee several months ago to focus specifically on this conference. Spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said this is the same team, which comprises various government departments, which delivered the ANC Policy Conference earlier this year successfully. Naidoo said their security plan is designed to focus on venue security, route security, air security, hotel security, as well as crowd management capabilities. “The NATJOINTS and the Gauteng Provincial Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure will be operational 24 hours per day, to closely monitor the situation before, during and after the conference.” In this regard, the South African Police Service (SAPS) will be supported operationally by various law enforcement agencies functioning within the province. These include marshals who will secure the venue, the Johannesburg Metro Police, Tshwane Metro Police and Ekurhuleni Metro Police who will patrol the routes, while the SANDF will provide logistical, air support and rapid response to prepare for any eventuality. “This by no means implies that day-to-day policing will be neglected. We shall continue to execute our policing mandate with the same resolve in this period.” Naidoo said while the NATJOINTS is confident about the cooperation of the delegates, as well as the public, it encouraged delegates to conduct themselves responsibly in this period. “Leaders are urged to refrain from making irresponsible, provocative statements or pronouncements, which may incite irresponsible or even violent behaviour.” Among the rules put in place is that only persons with approved accreditation will be allowed in the security perimeters of the conference. Any person found to be intoxicated and/or carrying any form of weapon/s, will not be allowed into the conference area. The Dangerous Weapons Act of 2013 and the Regulation of Gatherings Act of 1993, provide for the right of citizens to gather peacefully, but to do so without bearing dangerous weapons, inflicting harm on others or damaging property or infrastructure. The flying of drones in the vicinity of the conference area is strictly prohibited.-SAnews.gov.za 