 There was drama at a press briefing that was organised by ousted Democratic Alliance (DA) Councillor for the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Ward 1, Rashied Adams, on Tuesday. At the press briefing, which was held at the office of the United Democratic Movement's (UDM) Mongameli Bobani, Adams told reporters that his removal from the DA was a result of a plot by senior party members, who saw an opportunity to get rid of him when he fell on hard times, as they felt he was not the right race to represent Ward 1 residents. Read the full article HERE. He still denied having any sort of relationship with Bobani, who is the former Deputy Executive Mayor of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. “There’s no relationship with councillor Bobani, when I arrived here I was told that all the offices in this building have to be locked at the instruction of the Chief Whip,” he explained. Apparently, only Bobani was willing to lend him his office for the press briefing. However, there was drama at the conclusion of Adams' press conference after a woman identified as Gail Pullen, who apparently worked with Adams in Ward 1, claimed that the now-former Councillor owed monies to several members of the Ward Committee and residents. Pullen also alleged Adams never attended any of the Ward's community meetings and would be absent without sending an apology. She further claimed that one of the ladies that worked in Adams' office had left because she was tired of making excuses for him. “You will know from the Ward Committee policy of the City that the Ward Committee is chaired by the Ward Councillor and, as per policy, the Ward Councillor calls meetings of the ward committee. The meetings that you have attended, I only called for one of them in my capacity as Councillor, when I was kicked out to function as the PR councillor, I did what other PR people did. You attended meetings that I didn’t call,” Adams retorted. That was when Bobani, intervened and asked Pullen to leave his office.  “With your mentality, you want to embarrass a black fellow, who has actually come here after your party expelled him,” Bobani told Pullen. An argument broke between the two, to a point where Pullen accused Bobani of manhandling her. "What must be the political bankruptcy of the Nelson Mandela Bay DA, when a media conference is gate-crashed with the explicit intention to attempt to embarrass a former colleague cut off in the midst of responsibly addressing the very financial difficulties used by the DA to oust me!" Adams later said about the incident. "I have specific financial commitments. I am addressing it. "Imagine DA councillors and ward committee members trusting a councillor with financial assistance, and then turning on that councillor when no longer in office! Can it be that the DA members felt that by the office of a debtor they were to be advantaged, and that in the absence of that office, they no longer can benefit from their leverage? "It would never have worked that way at all, my former DA colleagues! It would never have worked that way at all. You have indicated the subtleties of political manipulation in a crystal clear manner this afternoon. I needed assistance; I wasn’t for sale – is that the real reason for ousting me?  "Tragic. Telling. Shame on you, Councillor Kruger. And on your posse. Shame on you. True colours showing. True colours showing." 