 Ninety life sentences and 4 362 years of imprisonment were handed down to rape and sexual offences suspects in various parts of the Eastern Cape from 1 April 2017 to 30 November 2017. Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, commended Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) Unit Detectives for thoroughly investigating the cases and presenting well prepared dockets to court which led to the successful prosecution of the rapists. “The diligent work and expert investigation by FCS members played a crucial role in securing these sentences and making sure that perpetrators of these offences are removed from the society. In the same light, we hope that the victims and their families will derive strength from the fact that those who inflicted such painful experience in their lives, have been jailed for a long time,” said Lt Gen Ntshinga. According to police spokesperson, Colonel Sibongile Soci; "The efforts of a dedicated team of investigators were rewarded when Mzikayise Mkavu (27) was sentenced effectively to 228 years imprisonment by Port Elizabeth High Court, for a string of charges including rape." Col Soci said that Mkavu terrorised and waged a reign of terror to Kwanobuhle community between July 2008 and 2016 and raped several victims between the ages of 16 and 31-years-old.  "Mkavu was linked to the rape charges through his DNA and arrested during April 2016.  "An effective 228-years prison sentence was handed down to the rapist," Col Soci said. "Mkavu faced 17 charges of rape, 10 charges of assault with the intent to do grievously bodily harm, eight charges of robbery with aggravated circumstances and one charge of attempted murder."  He added that Alindile Mnyameni (26) was sentenced to twenty (20) years imprisonment for raping a 23-year-old woman. "The victim was going from her home to her boyfriend’s place on 02 August 2014 at about 20:00 at Willowvale Informal Settlement, Willowvale, when she came across the accused who demanded R5 from her," described Col Soci. "When she told him that she did not have it, the accused forcefully took her to his place where he raped and later released her. A case of rape was registered at Willowvale Police Station. Butterworth FCS traced and arrested the accused." In another incident, the accused, Samkelo Nyembezi (29), was found guilty by the Maluti Regional Court for raping an 11-year-old girl and was sentenced to life imprisonment. "The court heard that the accused forced the victim into an old, unused house and raped her several times whenever he saw her passing by on her way to and from school. "The mother of the victim suspected something was wrong with her daughter and confronted her. It was then the young girl told her mother about her ordeal. The matter was reported to the police and the suspect was arrested," Col Soci said. He said that life and lengthy prison sentences handed down to perpetrators of rape and sexual offences is always welcomed by the SAPS. "These sentences are a result of the quality investigative skills adopted by FCS detectives and a reflection of the SAPS stance against crimes against women and children," added Col Soci. "In adhering to our commitment to eradicating violence against the vulnerable groups, the Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences Units are commended for the excellent investigation of rape and sexual offence cases." 