 The African National Congress (ANC) on Monday said that it has noted the launch of the African Democratic Change (ADEC) party by former ANC MP, Makhosi Khoza. Khoza officially launched her new political party over the weekend after she resigned from the ANC and Parliament earlier this year after being targeted for speaking out against corruption within the governing party. But her party is already in trouble with the ANC. "South Africa is a multiparty democracy and as such, a plethora of divergent views within our body politic is to be welcomed. "The ANC nevertheless notes with regret that the launch of the ADEC should be marred by the decision of the new party's leadership to blatantly appropriate the colours of the ANC into its logo," said Zizi Kodwa, ANC National Spokesperson. "The black, green and gold colors are recognized both locally and internationally and are associated with the long and proud history of Africa's oldest liberation movement. "Further deliberate action is taken to ensure the imagery within the logo closely resembles that of the ANC." Kodwa said that the "ADEC should incorporate the exact colors, as well as the exact sequence in which they are presented, into its logo points to a paucity of ideas at best, and political chicanery at worst". "It appears to be an attempt to attract supporters by means of subterfuge, which is regrettable. "Undoubtedly, the ADEC has taken this decision with the possibility of contesting the national elections in 2019 and thus intending to confuse voters who rightly associate the colors with that of the ANC," Kodwa added. "This undermines the spirit of free and fair elections. Accordingly, the ANC has briefed it's legal team to lodge an objection with the Independent Electoral Commission against this blatant mischief. "The ANC is not surprised that yet another political party in South Africa is attempting to ride on the coattails of ANC icons, iconography and symbolism. "We saw this same chance taking with the launch of the ill-fated Congress of the People (COPE) which sought to associate its own history with the Congress of the People in Kliptown; the African Independent Congress (AIC) and the DA's use of Nelson Mandela in its municipal government election campaign in 2016." He said that with no history and traditions of their own of the stature of the ANC - they have resorted to appropriation and intellectual property theft. "Whilst we understand the ANC will forever set the standard for all political formations in South Africa, we do nonetheless encourages all current and prospective political parties to broaden their intellectual and creative horizons with regards to their positioning in the hearts and minds of our people." The ADeC's logo is below.  