 The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Department of Safety and Security, its Metro Police service and the South African Police Service (SAPS) on Thursday plegded to work hand in hand to make local residents and visitors safer this festive season at an event held at Hobie Beach, in Summerstrand, Port Elizabeth. In a drill, the Metro Police demonstrated their crowd control capabilities - watch the video below.  Speaking for the SAPS, Major General Rabie, said that the police will be visible along all busy routes this festive season to ensure safety and security everywhere. “There will be road blocks, crime prevention operations, high visibility patrols, enforcement of traffic laws and many more safety procedures to ensure that everyone is safe. All these plans are to ensure a safest season and that the members of the public do enjoy themselves in a safe manner but we call on each and every one to do it responsible," he said. “This year we have many metro police unlike last year, therefore we will allow zero tolerance in a lot of things, including the use of alcohol in our beaches, drowning and shooting." Law enforcement will also be deploying officers on bicycles to ensure that criminals do not getaway by disappearing into crowds. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC of safety and security, Cllr John Best, thanked all the role-players for making the joint operation. “In South Africa, we have this culture of thinking that when we come to certain events and at the beach we must drink, we are going to stop that culture," he said. “In all 60 Wards, we will ensure safety, we also beg everyone if they see anything that is not in line with our safety procedures don’t tag friend on Facebook, call 10111 or 585 1555 and report so that police officers can be sent out there." Image: From left to right - SAPS Major-General Rabie; Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Metro Police Chief, Yolanda Faro; Director for Security, Arlin Robile; and Director of Traffic and Licensing, Warren Prins, signing the pledge. 