 It’s summer, it’s holiday time and it’s the season in which consumers want to take a break from worrying about what they spend. But with just a few shopping days left before Christmas, those who hope to buy a new home next year should actually be keeping an even tighter rein than usual on their finances. That’s the word from Berry Everitt, CEO of the Chas Everitt International property group, who says that festive season shoppers worldwide are known to spend between 15% and 30% more than they had originally planned on gifts, holiday accommodation and food. “However, while such extravagance is always great for retailers, it could easily spoil your chances of getting a home loan when the new year rolls around. It is thus important to think about which is really most important to you: Feeling rich right now as you spend madly, or being able to buy the home of your dreams next year.” Because your credit record is so important in obtaining a loan, those who are planning a home purchase early in the new year should also definitely refrain from opening any new store accounts at this time for major purchases like furniture or large appliances, he says. “In addition, they should be very careful not to spend up to the limit of their credit cards, or be tempted to take a holiday dip into any savings they have already accumulated for a deposit on a home or transfer costs. Cash is always short supply when you buy a new home.” To help potential homebuyers stay on financial course this holiday season, Everitt has the following suggestions: And lastly, says Everitt, you should plan ahead for January. “There are always extra expenses in January for things like school uniforms and equipment, on top of your regular monthly household costs. In addition, many insurance and medical aid premiums go up in January. “If you use a credit card in December, you should also plan to pay off the total amount when the bill comes in January, so that you don’t end up paying interest on those Christmas gifts for the rest of the year.” 