 The South African Revenue Service (SARS) will begin collecting the Sugary Beverages Levy (SBL) as from 1 April 2018, it announced on Friday. "The levy falls under the Rates and Monetary Amounts and Revenue Laws Amendment Bill, 2017, as passed in Parliament on 5 December 2017," described SARS Spokesperson, Sandile Memela. "Part 7A of Schedule No.1 to the Customs and Excise Act, 1964, provides for a health promotion levy on sugary beverages which have been manufactured in or imported into South Africa. Imported products will be taxed when they are cleared for home consumption and locally manufactured products will be taxed at source. "SBL returns and payments can be submitted electronically through SARS eFiling and will also be accepted at Customs and Excise branches." Memela said that licensing and registration of manufacturers of sugary beverages will take place from February 2018. "Only commercial manufacturers that produce sugary beverages with a total annual sugar content in excess of 500 kg per year need to be licensed and pay the SBL. Non-commercial producers below this threshold will be expected to register but will not be subject to the SBL," he added. "The levy is fixed at 2.1 cents per gram of the sugar content that exceeds 4 grams per 100ml, which means the first 4 grams per 100ml are levy free. The levy is part of government’s programme to prevent and control non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and assist in the prevention and control of obesity." Memela further said that SARS will engage industry stakeholders during roadshows to guide them through the process. "Dates for the roadshows will be published on the website in January 2018. Information about the SBL is available on the SARS website www.sars.gov.za." Related articles on South Africa's new Sugar Tax:  South Africa moves one step closer to a sugar tax - and a healthier lifestyle Experts: South Africans have a sweet tooth so shouldn't say no to a sugar tax Sugary drinks tax cautiously welcomed Treasury publishes proposals on taxation of sugar sweetened beverages PRICELESS SA adds voice to Treasury's proposed tax on sugar-sweetened beverages Opinion: Sugar tax: opportunity for transformation of an industry? 