 At its 8th Provincial Congress, which was held in East London over the weekend, the South African Communist Party (SACP) members in the Eastern Cape elected leaders, lamented the capture of state institutions and said it was dismayed that the Department of Water and Sanitation has threatened to cut water supply to municipalities that owe it monies. "We note the unacceptable levels of state capture which cause dysfunctionality of almost all state institutions at all levels including state owned enterprises," said SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson, Siyabonga Mdodi. "We commit to work tirelessly with the all progressive forces and our alliance partners to encourage a deliberate process of arresting the declining technical capacity of the state through strengthening of the democratic state into being a true developmental state while also redoubling our efforts to fight fraud and corruption in the public sector and all other sectors in our society as well as tenderisation of the state." He said that the SACP 8th Provincial Congress also expressed its rejection of the announcement by the Minister of Water and Sanitation to close water for municipalities, who are owing as that will have dire consequences to lives of the workers and the poor.  "The Congress also expressed its support for the South Africa Post Office (SAPO) to be the preferred distributor of social grants and be given licence as fully-fledged state bank," Mdodi added.     "We re- affirm our resolve to develop and participate actively in programmes geared towards fighting to dismantle the current patriarchal gender relations in our society while also engaging in processes for total emancipation of women and end of violence against women, children and the elderly." He said that the congress also received, noted, debated and accepted the resolutions of the 14 National Congress and committed to their implementation. "In particular with regards to state power contestation, we should consolidate and strengthen the left axis by consolidating the left forces in the consolidation of the people's power and working closely with civil society, rebuilding the trade union movement," he added. "We further re-affirm the alliance as the political command centre and to that regard we will work towards the reconfiguration of the alliance. "Noting the dominance of capitalist ideas in the shaping of our society, we commit to continue to actively challenge these ideas openly while forging ahead with our vanguard role in all key areas like places of work, communities, and places of learning and organs of peoples’ power." Internationally: The congress condemned the United Sates led "imperialist affirmation" of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. "The stupendous move by the President Trump and aligned bourgeoisie forces seeks to further oppress the peace-loving people of Palestine. It is our considered view that the United Nations must prevail upon US led imperialism," Mdodi said. "The support that has come for the immediate and unconditional downgrade of the SA embassy in Israel to  Representative/Liaison office is welcome and in particular the support from Fateh, Hamas, Popular front for Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) etc as well as Palestinian Churches and progressive Jewish Israeli comrades. The oppressed have spoken and we therefore reaffirm our support for the immediate and unconditional downgrade of the SA embassy in Israel "The congress condemns the situation in Libya where people are literally sold as the slaves for profit of the ruling elites. We are of the firm view that the resolution of this requires a unified Africa. "We reaffirm our principled solidarity with the people of Palestine, Swaziland, and other oppressed parts of the world. We commit ourselves as the South African Communist Party to actively lead campaigns in solidarity with the oppressed people of any part of the world." New Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) The SACP 8th Provincial Congress elected leadership as follows: Additional members: 