 The end of November marked almost a year after the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium (NMB Stadium) moved under the aegis of the city and the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA). "By any measure, it has been an interesting 12 months.  During this period, stadium management were able to forge a new vision largest real estate asset into a working investment on behalf ratepayers and residents of the metro," Mpho Mokonyama, Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium: Stadium Manager..    "We have had to come up with an entirely new and different business model too. "The stadium was always intended as a multi-purpose venue.  Traditionally this refers to multi –purpose in sporting codes but, the NMB Stadium through innovation and forward planning see this as a new way to change its business strategy, focus on a wider basket of events – rather than exclusively on soccer and rugby in particular." Mokonyama said that several new sport, recreational and arts & culture events were added to the stadium’s calendar for the first time. "The transition period has been challenging.  We are pleased to announce that several new policies and procedures are now in place.  To be sure: we’ve had to re-align the direction of ship an entity operated in the private sector to an asset under jurisdictions of various policies of the metro.  This has also required retraining our staff in the way they think, operate, and deliver work. "A key focus of development in the future will be the stadium precinct. Pending the outcomes of future feasibility and environmental impact assessment studies, the development will be envisaged as an office and retail complex and boutique hotel on the lake front, as well as a high-performance center and sports team headquarters next to the precinct B and C fields," he described. "This is the first step of many which could change the face of the North End area. It will also include the North End Lake front complex, new sports academy with gym and fields, rugby and football headquarters and training facilities.  "The MBDA continues to work closely with Nelson Mandela Bay in identifying a new focus on precinct and property development which will create a visible and measurable community benefits." Mokonyama further said that the stadium’s reputation as an environmental friendly building will be further enhanced by the green hub and job creation focused environmental and recycling initiatives.  "The stadium is capable of transforming itself for any event. This strategic direction ensures that the venue is used to its fullest potential. Regular sporting fixtures still remain prominent, but the stadium is diversifying to meet the needs of a public who want different experiences. "Unlike any other major multi-purpose stadium in South Africa, the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium has a monopoly on all major sporting and entertainment events which take place in the entire region, stretching from the Transkei through to the Southern Cape," he described. "Through the two anchor tenants, Chippa United and the Southern Kings, the stadium is able to continue delivering entertaining sports across two major popular South African sporting codes. "To be a world class entertainment facility is the stadium’s vision, and we are continuously looking for innovative ways of achieving this." Mokonyama added that to commemorate the late Tata Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday celebration, the stadium has planned a number of initiatives in partnership with key stakeholders in the city. "Port Elizabeth is an amazing city which has a great investment potential including its heritage and culture. The MBDA’s goal is to create an environment in which the stadium becomes a focal point and desired destination for new and exciting events, consequently resulting in an influx of spectators as well as ensure that the legacy is carried over and that the ship remains stable," he concluded. "The Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium’s core focus is to position itself as a multipurpose stadium capable of offering a one-stop shop – generating sales opportunities so that the business can grow through various income streams." 