 The Democratic Alliance (DA) is on Monday morning expected to lay charges against the Eastern Cape Provincial Government Director-General (DG)‚ Marion Mbina-Mthembu, whom it claims authorised the transfer of funds to corrupt entities and individuals during her time as Provincial Treasury Head. According to the party, the charges, which will be laid by DA National Spokesperson, Refiloe Nt’sekhe, and DA Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson, Mlindi Nhanha at the SAPS Fleet Street station in East London, will be laid in terms of the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act against Ms Mina-Mthembu for her role in the R330-million Mandela Funeral Funds scandal. "We will also submit the Public Protector’s Mandela Funeral Report to the South African Police Service (SAPS) to supplement an existing docket and ongoing investigation by the Hawks into the allegations which date back to 2013," the party said. "The ANC in the Eastern Cape has shown that it will do anything to advance a corrupt agenda, even steal the people’s money in the name of former President Nelson Mandela." Mandela Funeral Funds abuse Releasing her Mandela Funeral report, Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, on Monday last week, recommended that President Jacob Zuma authorises the Special Investigations Unit (SIU) to investigate the irregular or negligent expenditure of R300 million during former president, Nelson Mandela’s funeral. The late statesman and global icon, fondly known as Madiba, died on 5 December 2013 after suffering from a prolonged respiratory infection.  Mandela's body lay in state from 11 to 13 December at the Union Buildings in Pretoria and a state funeral was held on 15 December in his rural home of Qunu, outside Mthatha. Allegations surfaced after the funeral of how public funds were abused during the course of the funeral, leading to an investigation by the office of the Public Protector. Consequently, Advocate Mkhwebane released her Madiba Funeral report at the the Public Protector offices in Pretoria. The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday said the whole Mandela Funeral Funds saga had brought shame upon the ANC while the ANC in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday called on Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, and state agencies to take action on the findings.  Meanwhile, the ANC in the Eastern Cape Legislature said that it has noted the findingsand wil release a statement on its recommendations this week.   