 Accidental injury is the worst thing that can happen to you when you are abroad in an unfamiliar environment. Not only will you be far away from friends and family, you will have no access to your usual doctor or local hospital - and the challenges can continue to grow! As well as putting the dampener on the fun you have been having sipping fruity cocktails on the poolside garnished with cherries or listening to the waves repeatedly lap against the sand under a multi-coloured parasol, understanding how to make a holiday injury claim can be quite the challenge. It doesn't matter whether you have been involved in a car accident that was due to somebody else, injured skiing down the marked slopes of the Alps or have tripped, slipped or fallen to injury, you can make a claim. Report the accident  To make a claim if you’re injured on holiday, you should report the accident as soon as possible to the hotel management or representative in the resort. Claiming holiday compensation isn’t limited to broken bones. You are able to claim holiday compensation if you suffered from food poisoning abroad, went through undue discomfort due to negligence, lost earnings due to an injury obtained abroad or if you paid for medical treatments as a result of your illness or injury abroad.   If you have travel insurance (which you should!), contact the insurance company immediately, since all insurance policies offer specific time limits for notifying them of an accident. They will be able to advise you on both the medical and legal situation alike so you can make the next steps towards making a claim.   If you plan to travel without the appropriate travel insurance under your belt, you may want to reconsider your decision. Whilst is can seem like an unnecessary task on your long to-do list, travel insurance provides activity cover so you can be assured that no matter when you decide to jet ski at Colwyn Bay in Wales, skydive Mount Everest or bungee jump from the Macau Tower in China you are covered. Plus, you can get help making a legal claim and receive the advice you need when it’s needed the most.   Keep a record  It doesn’t matter where you are or what time of day it is, it’s vital to seek medical assistance as soon as you have been injured. If you delay getting medical assistance, you may affect any claim for compensation you attempt to make when you get home, which is just another essential reason why you must ask for a copy of your medical report and retain receipts.  Depending on the severity of the accident you have been involved in, it may not be possible to obtain the names of guest who have witnessed the situation. But, do your utmost to gather as much evidence as possible by taking photographs and writing down what happened.   Next steps...  When you return home, seek legal advice from a reputable source, since holiday personal injury claims can be a highly complicated. It doesn’t matter what the circumstance may be, you should be able to comfortably fund your case on a no-win-no-fee basis, meaning that you won’t be required to pay any amount of money up front, or be forced to take out an additional insurance policy to protect your court case being lost. Source: bizcommunity.com 