 The South African Police Service (SAPS) on Friday held various passing-out parades for more than 3000 newly trained police officials countrywide. The passing-out parades were held at the SAPS Tshwane Academy, Bhisho Academy in the Eastern Cape and at Bishop Lavis in the Western Cape. A total of 3 499 newly trained officers will be deployed across the country just in time for the festive season. This is inclusive of 935 females and 2564 males. The police trainees who stood on parade are the second intake to graduate from the revised Basic Police Training Learning Programme which was introduced in 2016. The revised programme comprises an induction phase of one month, which is intended to familiarise trainees with the police station environment and the overall basic activities of the community service centres. During this phase, trainees develop a better understanding of policing duties which eventually prepares them towards their learning abilities for the academy. The trainees then proceed to one of the SAPS’ training academies for eight months where they are trained as police officials. This training is a combination of theory and practice. Once completed, members are then deployed as fully-fledged constables to their various police stations across the country, where they serve a one-year probation period, which is also seen as an in-service training programme. The training programme allows officers to provide a more efficient and effective policing service to ensure that the people of South Africa are and feel safe. In his welcoming address, the National Commissioner General Khehla Sitole congratulated the newly trained officers and encouraged them to implement their skills and knowledge at the various police stations nationwide. General Sitole told the new police officers to continuously learn and apply what they have been taught in an endless process of improving their policing skills.  “In your career as a police officer, remember that your focus should always be the citizens of this country, the people you have to serve and protect. Use the powers granted to you with an accompanying sense of responsibility, and be ethical in all that you do. “Treat all people with respect. Respect and humility will keep you on the right track in trying times, even when criminals try to lure you into criminality for corrupt gains. Live and work in such a way that your colleagues and the community will respect you.” Minister of Police, Fikile Mbalula, urged the new officers to uphold the constitution of the country, thereby respecting all human rights in the execution of their policing mandate. The Minister said policing in a democratic dispensation means the human rights of communities must be respected at all times. Human rights are therefore a golden thread that runs through all the different modules.  “Never forget what you have learnt during your training, as you will need to physically and mentally survive and strive in your career and to overcome the challenges which await you. “Remember that corruption and dishonesty tarnish the image of the SAPS and that many men and women in blue lost their jobs, ended up behind bars and with criminal records because they succumbed to the evils of criminal activity and greed.” The new police officers will be a force multiplier which will enhance police visibility during this busy festive season. - SAnews.gov.za 