 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, on Monday made a surprise announcement that he has made changes to his Mayoral Committee. The Mayoral Committee is the Executive wing of the institution chaired by the Executive Mayor. Trollip first appointed his Mayoral Committee on the 24th of August in 2016after a Democratic Alliance (DA) -led coalition booted the African National Congress (ANC) from power in the 2016 Local Government Elections.  That Mayoral Committee included former Deputy Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, who was also the Member of the Mayoral Committee (MMC) for Public Health. He was fired from that position by Trollip early this year and was subsequently relieved of his duties as Deputy Mayor in August. The Public Health portfolio wasfor a time then led by the Partriotic Alliance's Marlon Daniels after the party was admitted to the DA-led Coalition.  When the Patriotic Alliance left the coalition in September, the portfolio was once again headed by Trollip. Addressing reporters at City Hall, Trollip said that the reshuffle was meant to avoid corruption and to promote progress in the Bay. He further emphasised the importance of reviewing progress made up to date. “This is the kind of progress that we want to keep making and this as being the opportunity to us having to look at the composition of the team and to restructure it making it most effective,” Trollip added. “This will take the coalition government in a direction that ensures continued improvement of service delivery." The Mayor said that over the last year, the DA coalition government has provided running water and flush sanitation to 12 000 residents through RDP relocation and serviced sites programmes. “A Metro Police Service, two satellite stations and ShotSpotter technology have been established to create a safe city. “Over 2000 job opportunities have been created through the Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP), as we work towards ensuring an opportunity City for all," he added. “Corruption has been stopped in its tracks with the freezing of several dubious contracts and the suspension of numerous officials. “This is the sort of progress we want to keep making, but at an even faster rate. With this Mayoral Committee, I am confident we will be able to do so. I am confident that with these changes, the Metro will be able to deliver even better services and bolster the economy to create sustainable jobs." New look Mayoral Committee The Pan Africanist Congress' (PAC) Cllr Lance Grootboom, who was the chairperson for the Public Accounts Committee, is now the new head of Public Health. Trollip said that after the stunning turnaround that Grootboom has made in Public Accounts, he believes that he will do more in his new position, which entails cleaning up the city. The African Christian Democratic Party's (ACDP) Cllr Masixole Zinto, was added to Mayoral Committee as the portfolio councillor for Infrastructure, Engineering, Electricity & Energy. Cllr Annette Lovemore will now be in charge of Corporate Services. The new Mayoral Committee is as follows: Speaking at the briefing, Lovemore said that she was ready to start work immediately. “I am a detailed oriented person, I have a number of challenges that I need to face and I plan to take them by neck.”  