 An elderly Port Elizabeth woman, Thembeka Sikalika, who survived a brutal assault this year, will sleep in safety from now on after the South African Police Service's (SAPS) Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Investigations (FCS) unit renovated her home through a project called Sinawe - 'we are with you'. According to police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge, project Sinawe focuses on improving the living conditions of the elderly and was introduced after Sikalika was allegedly brutally assaulted in January this year. “Thembeka Sikaliva, became a victim of crime during January this year. During the investigation by police, it was discovered that this 77-year-old lady was living under very poor conditions at her house,” described Captain Beetge. “Detective Constable Vatiswa Nontshokweni of the Motherwell Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) unit, together with the SAPS sector managers of Motherwell police station, then started on a project to uplift this victim's living conditions." He added that sponsors were approached and renovations started last week, which included painting of the house, bringing in household furniture and equipment, food, a new bed and bedding, as well as clothing. “The victim spent the past week in a place of safety while renovations were done by police members of the Motherwell police station, Community Police Forum (CPF) as well as FCS unit members,” Beetge said. “Today, the house was handed back to Mrs Sikalika during a handing over ceremony at the house. Her joy of finding a brand new house again was shared by her partner, 70 year old Mr Bill Vukenini, and her close family and friends." Speaking at the event, Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, said that the project is part of the SAPS' focus on celebration of 16 Days of Activism of No Violence Against Women and Children, and the protection of elderly community members. “In terms of the Older Persons Act 13 of 2006, we need to promote and maintain the rights, status, well-being and safety and security of older persons," he added. 