 Reacting to the election of Deputy President, Cryril Ramaphosa, to succeed President Jacob Zuma, as African National Congress (ANC) President – and ultimately South African President, the party’s Women’s League on Tuesday told a press briefing at the party’s 54th National Elective Conference at NASREC, in Johannesburg, that they feel they have been let down. The ANCWL, which is led by Social Development Minister, Bathabile Dlamini, said that the late Oliver Reginald Thambo must be turning on his grave because patriarchy has once again emerged within the ANC. Dlamini looked saddened as she was expressing her disappointments, adding that the idea of a 50-50 representation did not come as a gift to women in South Africa – as they also fought hard to liberate the country from apartheid. The ANCWL had previously thrown its weight behind former African Union Chairperson, and Zuma’s ex-wife, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. “We have to express our disappointments, as members of the ANC because we are members of the ANC before we are members of the ANC Women’s league. “The women’s league is at a centre of bringing hope to women of South Africa and we think that we have been able to drive the struggle for women,” she described. “We fought a good fight and the struggle for the emancipation of women must continue. The ANC must take a decision on how women are going to be affirmed.” Dlamini said that although Dlamini-Zuma did not, they are happy that she fought hard and they will continue to fight for equal representation. “The fight continues with women united. Our common goal should be fighting patriarchy, sexism and marginalisation of women. “We cannot be proud of this outcome, patriarchy has once again emerged,” she said. “Comrade Olivier Thambo must be turning on his grave because of the outcomes as he always ensured representation of women.” She still said Dlamini-Zuma’s credentials were trampled upon and she was reduced to being an ex-wife, but she didn’t take any of that personally becuase she knew that it was not about her.     