 The Capital Pearls Resort Hotel in Umhlanga, Kwa-Zulu Natal, officially opened its doors in December 2017 as Capital Hotels & Apartments' eighth property in South Africa and its first outside main cities Johannesburg, Pretoria and Cape Town. Offering 140 apartments and extensive conference and meeting facilities accommodating up to 200 delegates, the hotel has direct access to the main Umhlanga Beach.  The contemporary apartments are a mixture of executive suites, and one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments, each including a modern fully equipped kitchen and living area, all designed to strike a balance between the comfort of home and the luxury of resort living. The hotel is in the fifth phase of The Pearls of Umhlanga development, offering easy access to a swimming pool, bar, sun deck, more than 16 restaurants and a children’s play area. Complimentary access to the development’s Planet Fitness Gym is also available to all residents.  The Pearls Mall, the Umhlanga Pier and Lighthouse, Umhlanga beach promenade and the many other local restaurants and amenities that make Umhlanga a popular also within walking distance. Focusing on the things that really matter According to Marc Wachsberger, MD at The Capital Hotels and Apartments, guests choose The Capital's hotels and apartments because they are 25% more affordable than other hotels of comparable size and quality. “We have implemented our strategy of eliminating unnecessary costs typical of the hospitality industry at The Capital Pearls too, and focus on the things that really matter – because that’s good for our clients’ business,” he continues. The Capital Pearls, along with all The Capital’s properties across South Africa, does not offer services such as porters, bedtime turndowns, sewing kits or unlimited toiletries. Instead, it is designed to make travellers stay more efficient and cost-effective by offering free uncapped high-speed internet, laundry services, secure parking, and shuttle services.  Bolstering business facilities in Umhlanga The Capital Pearls offers conferencing facilities for up to 200 people, with six different spaces that can be configured and equipped to host banquets, lectures, workshops, or private meetings and fine dining.   “We noticed a shortage of business facilities within or close to Umhlanga, especially close to the beach, and designed The Capital Pearls to offer world-class conferencing solutions and accommodation options,” Wachsberger explains.  Conference rooms at The Capital Pearls offer 2.4m x 1.4m screens, with built-in sound systems including wireless microphones and data projectors. The boardrooms are equipped with 55-inch HD TV screens, video conferencing facilities and flipcharts, with all facilities able to use the property’s complimentary high-speed uncapped Wi-Fi. 