 A manhunt is currently underway in Port Elizabeth where a police officer was gunned down and another hospitalised following an armed robbery on Thursday night when the officers responded to an alarm at a local company. "It is alleged that on Thursday, at about 23:00, Mount Road members attended to an alarm at PE Ice Cream in Paterson Road in North End. "On arrival, the members were met by the supervisor at the gate," said police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "Prior to police arrival, the security guard was held at gun point by two men, who entered the premises (one was armed). He was taken to the guard room and tied up. "One of the suspect’s mistakenly activated the panic alarm, which alerted the control room, who despatched the supervisor to the premises. As the supervisor drove to the gates, he was also held at gunpoint and taken to the guard room." She said that a few minutes after the supervisor, police arrived at the premises. "The suspects threatened the supervisor and ordered him to send the police away. As the supervisor was busy with the police, the armed suspect came out and started shooting at the two police officials." She said that Constable Caroline Mjandana (38) was fatally wounded in her neck while the driver, Sergeant Anele France (43), was shot in his right ear. "He is in a stable condition in hospital." Both police officers' firearms were taken and police are investigating cases of murder and attempted murder. "We offer our most heartfelt condolences to the family of Constable Mjandana and wish our wounded colleague a speedy recovery.  We can assure them that the South African Police Service will not rest until the perpetrators are brought to book. We cannot remain silent when those who are out there, risking their lives to protect us, are killed,’ said Provincial Commissioner for Eastern Cape, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga. "The South African Police Service calls upon our communities to support the SAPS and assist us in ensuring the safety of our officers by reporting any information on the suspects who carry out attacks on or murders of our members," added Capt Van Rensburg. "Information can be given to Lt Col Mayi on 082 697 5914 or any police station or by calling the Crime Stop number 08600 10111 or sending a text message to Crime Line on 32211, anonymously if needs be."  