 George Municipality Executive Mayor, Melvin Naik, proudly heralded the achievement at a Budget Committee meeting on Friday last week, that George had succeeded with the award of a 6th consecutive Clean Audit for the 2016/17 Financial year. “George Municipality and council is constantly challenged to deliver and maintain the rendering of good service to all our citizens. More and more is expected of us whilst especially the financial resources are being stretched beyond their limits," the Mayor said. "The 6th Clean Audit proves that we are managing these financial resources in a sustainable manner allowing us to develop a capable city that delivers for its people.” Portfolio Councillor for Finance, Stag Cronje, noted this was a huge achievement and this performance shows that George Municipality has succeeded in practising, incorporating and institutionalizing the principals and procedures to maintain our fiscal discipline and stability. “The challenge is now to maintain this level and ensure we stay on track, not only  for  the financial department but to all the directorates in the entire administration of our municipality. The challenge is also now to lift the performance bar to a next level and makes excellence a habit. "We all must make a mind shift and try do things smarter and better in all the different directorates of our municipality. It is a huge honour and privilege to be part of the Finance Department and I really enjoy every single moment thereof," he described. "The dedication, commitment and hard work of all the staff in this department is something the organization can only be proud of. Thanks to the leadership and every staff member of our Finance Department for the hard work in 2016/2017 financial year.” Trevor Botha, Municipal Manager noted that as a municipal team effort we remain humble in our achievement of a 6th Clean Audit Award and our staff will continue to invest enormous effort to maintain good governance and the effective delivery of municipal services. “We are confronted with major challenges on a daily basis and at times have to fend off spurious allegations of maladministration by doom profits. "The award of a 6th  successive Clean Audit is a well-deserved confirmation from the Auditor General’s Office that George Municipality remains on the right track and  the staff as well as the public can rightfully be very proud of the achievement. The Clean Audit Award also affirms that George Municipality remains one of the pace setting and better managed municipalities in the country,” he said. “The receiving of a 6th unqualified audit opinion demonstrates that we are continuing with our good governance practices, and that as a going concern it gives encouragement to interested lenders to do business with this municipality. This is not a time to be become complacent but to continue to improve as an organisation," said CFO Keith Jordaan. 