 The New Year is almost here and with it comes the opportunity to set exciting New Year’s Resolutions to better ourselves and our businesses. 2018 is bound to have all sorts of surprises in store and, while we can’t always control what happens, we can attempt to make predictions and plan accordingly. This starts with identifying those trends that are set to surface or grow in significance during the coming year. In the article below, we outline four of these trends as they pertain to the digital marketing space so that you can take your digital marketing to the next level in 2018 and reap all the benefits of doing so. Ephemeral content refers to online content that’s short-lived and is usually only visible for 24 hours. This trend rose to popularity with the launch of Snapchat and has gone on to be embraced by both Instagram and Facebook and ultimately represents an authentic way to connect with your customers online. There’s something about time-stamped content that compels social media users to view and engage with the content before it disappears. Whether it’s the fear of missing out or fascination with real and raw video clips and images, ephemeral content is one trend that’s here to stay. While polished posts and adverts are an essential part of a digital marketing strategy, ephemeral content should be added into the mix to foster trust with your followers and generate excitement for your brand. Influencers are those individuals who have a significant impact on or influence over their sizeable follower base. By partnering with influencers who’ve built up an engaged community comprising of members from your target market, you can reach relevant audiences, gain new followers and ultimately more customers, too. Because an influencer has built up trust with his or her followers, they’re more likely than a traditional advert to assure your target market about the benefits of using your business’s products or services. Whether you choose to partner with mega, macro or micro-influencers, who have between 500 to 1M+ followers respectively, the key is to partner with someone who’s interests are aligned with yours and who has the ability to drive the desired action from your chosen audience. While online advertising is dominated by Google and Facebook, it would be a risky move to put all your ad spend eggs in one basket. People are everywhere these days and, as a result, you may miss out on reaching your customers by only focusing on one or two areas of the world wide web. In the new year, look into diversifying your interests by advertising via other platforms where your target market is present. B2B companies, especially, can increase their chances of reaching the right audience through highly targeted LinkedIn adverts. By experimenting with campaigns on other platforms, you can not only increase your reach and brand awareness, but also learn more about your target market through detailed insights provided by the ad platform and be inspired to continue coming up with fresh marketing ideas. Employees are in the best possible position to be an online ambassador for your business. By sharing your content or even generating content of their own to share online, they can help validate your marketing messages and also increase your organic visibility. In saying this, remember that it’s important to train your employees on which kinds of information is acceptable to put out there and make them aware of the responsibility that comes with being a brand ambassador. The great thing about investing in employee advocacy is that the benefits won’t only be realised in the online space but at your physical premises too as it encourages positivity amongst the workforce, leading to increased productivity and commitment to the company. Do you have the desire to take your digital marketing to the next level in 2018? If the answer’s yes, then get in touch with Online Innovations today. At Online Innovations, we’re passionate about the online space and are committed to creating strategies that capitalise on current trends to drive actionable results for your business. Discover our digital marketing services by contacting Bronwen on 041 365 4919 or visit our website at www.onlineinnovations.com.  