 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday called on Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, and state agencies to take action on the findings by Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, that R300 million of public funds was irregularly and negligently spent during former president, Nelson Mandela’s funeral. The late statesman and global icon, fondly known as Madiba, died on 5 December 2013 after suffering from a prolonged respiratory infection.  Mandela's body lay in state from 11 to 13 December at the Union Buildings in Pretoria and a state funeral was held on 15 December in his rural home of Qunu, outside Mthatha. Allegations surfaced after the funeral of how public funds were abused during the course of the funeral, leading to an investigation by the office of the Public Protector. Consequently, Advocate Mkhwebane released her Madiba Funeral report at the the Public Protector offices in Pretoria. The R300 million was apparently misspent by the Eastern Cape provincial government, the Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC), the Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality, the Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan Municipality and the King Sabata Dalindyebo District Municipality. "The ANC in the Eastern Cape notes and welcomes the long awaited release of the Public Protector report on the Nelson Mandela Funeral," said Provincial Secretary, Lulama Ngcukayitobi. "We would study the report and familiarize ourselves with its contents before issuing a comprehensive response. "This report is exceptionally significant for our growing democracy because it will hopefully shed some light on the level of influence, corruption and meddling by some sections of business in our government's affairs." He said that the ANC in the Eastern Cape's view is consistent with its long-standing campaign against corruption, fraud, wasteful expenditure and mismanagement of public funds and we strongly call for tough action to be taken against anyone found to have been involved in such conduct. "The ANC reaffirms its support for the function and work of Chapter 9 institutions such as the PP which bear the responsibility for supporting constitutional democracy, and reaffirm our belief in the importance of due process in handling matters of this nature. "We will reserve comment on the content of the report until the Premier and the Legislature had an opportunity to exercise their responsibilities in this matter," Ngcukayitobi added. "The ANC Eastern Cape therefore calls on the Premier, Hawks ,NPA and all mentioned organs of state to give the report , its recommendations and remedial action due and proper consideration without fail." 