 Schneider Electric, in partnership with Wits Business School (WBS), has rolled out a customised version of the WBS’ Management Advancement Programme (MAP) and New Managers Programme (NMP) to address its leadership skills needs. The programmes are tailored specifically for middle and senior management within the organisation, to transform the thinking patterns of the participating employees and to create an innovative, culturally intelligent workforce that would thrive using strategic thinking and progressive leadership skills. “People are central to the organisations’ strategy and part of our journey to transform the company,” explains Susan Scheepers (Head of Learning and Development Anglophone) for Schneider Electric. “This was the first group to go through the programme and, because of its success, it will be repeated. These students accepted the challenge we made by investing in their future and now we look forward to them growing to their full potential. At Schneider Electric, we believe that Life is On with lifelong learning and we believe that this is the start of their journey and not the end “We not only paid the full cost of the management programmes but also assisted with time, effort and support needed to help them through their studies; offering coaching and mentoring.” MAP Graduates Ahmed Ashruf, Avin Ramjeeth, Barend (Benno) Lubbe, Brighton Mwarehwa, George Senzere, Gloria Setshedi, Mark Jenniker, Nirvana Sivalingam and Zakiyyah Imam. Jeanette Minnaar will graduate in 2018 after she completes an outstanding module. NMP Graduates Hepworth/ Neo Matsapola, Joyce / Nelisiwe Toolo, Kumeshni Moodley, Lebogang Mankge, Lesley Hlongwane, Mpho Leeto, Nobuhle Mzobe, Ntungufhadzeni Singo, Rhulani Maluvane and Viresh Husrath. Learnerships for the disabled In addition to the WBS management programmes, Schneider Electric also invested in End User Computing NQF 3 qualifications and Business Administration NQF 3 learnerships, in partnership with Bytes People Solutions, to empower disabled learners to acquire knowledge, skills, attitudes and values required to operate confidently in a business environment. End User Computing NQF 3 Learnership graduates Nondumiso Gugu Mhlanga, Tabiso Tafeni, Nandi Mabena, Mamello Wendy Tsoeu, Brian Masina and Zamokuhle Zamashenge Mazibuko. Business Administration NQF 3 Learnership graduates Lesedi Tiroeng, Tebogo Frans Sereko, Portia Lauren Munisami, Terane King Mabuyangwe, Yamkela Dlisani, Gcina Nyawose, Matiti Thete and Tsholofelo Jonas. These graduates will receive their certificates in 2018. “It’s not just top management responsible   for leadership but also our graduates should lead from their positions. As we roll out the programme, students and graduates must share with the rest of the company and pay their learning forward by empowering others to become masters of their own destiny. People do not get far based on what they know, but they will get far on what they learn. “The overarching outcome of this exercise is to build transformative adaptive capabilities in our staff so that when practiced and implemented, they can support further organisational core competencies, thereby providing Schneider Electric with competitive and adaptive advantage in the marketplace,” concludes Susan Scheepers. BYTES People Solutions list of delegates that attended graduation ceremony WITS Business School list of faculty that attended graduation ceremony Faculty members Image: From left to right: Barend (Benno) Lubbe; Jeanette Minnaar; Nirvana Sivalingam; Dr.Thabang Mokoaleli_Mokoteli - Senior Lecturer (Wits Business School) MAP; George Senzere 