 The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, which is currently facing a huge water crisis, on Thursday undertook to send its engineers to assess the possibility of harvesting drinking water from a Newton Park property, which apparently sits on top of an opening to an underground aquifer.  The property is owned by Port Elizabeth businessman, Gregory Adams, who has so far donated over seven million litres of usable water from the aquifer to the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality for replenishing at public swimming pools across the Bay. Adams said that he bought his house three years ago not knowing that, a few years later, his property would be flooded with water. “About three years ago, we purchased this premises and we decided to re-open the swimming pool," he described. “After that, water started pushing up every day and re-filling the pool." With the current drought that has seen water restrictions imposed on Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality residents, Adams and his team started to share the water with the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality in October. To date, he has donated over seven million litres of water to fill up six municipal swimming pools in Summerstrand, Westering, Gelvandale, Kwanobuhle, Wells Estate and Zwide. However, it hasn’t been easy for Adams as the pump used to draw the water has seen his monthly electricity bill skyrocket. He said that it's now to a point where he is afraid of opening his monthly electricity bills. The Executive Mayor of the Nelson Mandela Bay, Athol Trollip, visited Adams' home on Thursday and said that he would send engineers to assess the possibility of forming a partnership with him. “He has got a resource that is making his property hard to live on especially when it rains there is a high water table and water comes out of the ground. So, he needs to get it off his property," said Trollip. "If we can use it sustainably as the municipality, we can come to a partnership agreement.”  When Executive Mayor Trollip drank the water, he was satisfied with its quality and compared it with the normal tap water. The Mayor said that the water was much fresher as it came straight from the ground!  