 Commenting on the findings by Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, that R300 million of public funds was irregularly and negligently spent during former president, Nelson Mandela’s funeral, the African National Congress (ANC) Caucus in the Eastern Cape Legislature on Wednesday said that anyone found to have had a hand in the saga must be held accountable. The late statesman and global icon, fondly known as Madiba, died on 5 December 2013 after suffering from a prolonged respiratory infection.  Mandela's body lay in state from 11 to 13 December at the Union Buildings in Pretoria and a state funeral was held on 15 December in his rural home of Qunu, outside Mthatha. Allegations surfaced after the funeral of how public funds were abused during the course of the funeral, leading to an investigation by the office of the Public Protector. Consequently, Advocate Mkhwebane released her Madiba Funeral report at the the Public Protector offices in Pretoria. "The ANC Caucus notes the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s report on the expenditure incurred in the preparation for the late former President Nelson Mandela’s funeral," said ANC Chief Whip in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature, Mzoleli Mrara. "The Caucus pledges to apply its mind and consider all findings as well as remedial actions pertaining to the matter. "However, as a matter of principle, the ANC Caucus holds that all organs of state or persons who are implicated and are found to have transgressed, should be subjected to the due accountability processes akin to public representatives." Mkhwebane's findings came just a day before the nation marked four years since the passing of Madiba. "The ANC Caucus further wishes to draw attention to the occasion of the fourth commemoration of the passing on of former President Nelson Mandela that took place yesterday – the 5th of December 2017," said Mrara. "We will continue to seek to emulate the values espoused by Madiba as he and leaders of his calibre attempted to sew together the pieces of a highly divided South Africa. As he would have turned 100 years in 2018, we look forward to the worldwide celebration of the Nelson Mandela Centenary, which will be characterised by a myriad of activities in his honour." The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday said the whole Mandela Funeral Funds saga had brought shame upon the ANC while the ANC in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday called on Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, and state agencies to take action on the findings.  