 Individuals implicated in Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane's, Mandela Funeral report should be held individually liable and the good name of the African National Congress (ANC) should not be dragged into the matter. That is the word from the ANC in the Eastern Cape, which held a special Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) meeting on Monday, which served to assess the state of readiness of the province for the upcoming 54th ANC National Conference. The meeting was preceded by a meeting of the ANC PEC Officials with ANC deployees, who are leading various government institutions that are implicated in the Public Protector report on the Nelson Mandela funeral. Public Protector’s Report Mkhwebane, on Monday last week,recommended that President Jacob Zuma authorises the Special Investigations Unit (SIU) to investigate the irregular or negligent expenditure of R300 million during former president, Nelson Mandela’s funeral. The late statesman and global icon, fondly known as Madiba, died on 5 December 2013 after suffering from a prolonged respiratory infection.  Mandela's body lay in state from 11 to 13 December at the Union Buildings in Pretoria and a state funeral was held on 15 December in his rural home of Qunu, outside Mthatha. "The ANC PEC noted that the handling of the Nelson Mandela funeral by the various spheres of government in our province left much to be desired. "The Public Protector’s reports points to poor planning, lack of foresight and an apparent failure to anticipate the known eventuality of the sad passing on of uTata, what is further unfortunate is that the entire government had been planning for this eventuality for at least two years in advance," the party said. "It is quite baffling therefore that when the unfortunate eventuality of Tata’s passing the Eastern Cape Government and Municipalities appeared not have a coherent plan in place and as such acted in a haphazard uncoordinated manner which in a way opened the door for corrupt elements to abuse the process. "We can’t help but conclude that this in a way points to lack of leadership and planning capacity across the different spheres of government within the Province." The party said that in meeting with the leadership of the implicated government institutions, the ANC PEC emphasised the need for "decisive action in implementing the remedial actions of the Public Protector and ensure that all those implicated in any form of wrong doing are held accountable and stern action is taken against them". "The PEC further noted the damning findings against the Director General of the Province and we are of the view that the DG should recuse herself or be placed on a special leave to give space to the full implementation of Public Protector’s remedial actions. (Criminal charges were laid against herby the Democratic Alliance on Monday.) "The Provincial Legislature as the institution that is constitutionally charged to provide oversight over the Provincial Government should take the matter further by establishing an Ad-hoc committee to process the report," the ANC said. "This Ad-hoc Committee should conduct extensive hearings into the matter including summoning all those who are cited in the report to give further evidence and or account for their involvement in the matter. "As the ANC PEC we will continuously monitor and provide the necessary political guidance to ensure the speedily implementation of the Public Protector’s remedial actions. "The ANC PEC further distances the ANC from any individual wrong-doing or misconduct, the individuals implicated in the report should be held individually liable and the good name of the ANC should not be dragged into the matter. The ANC has not deployed any Comrade to public office to act in a way that violates the laws and constitution of the republic." It said that, in this regard, consistent and in concert with the previous organisational processes, the ANC Integrity Commission should look into all those ANC leaders that are implicated by Public Protector’s report and take the necessary action in this regard. "As we move towards the centenary celebrations of Tata Nelson Mandela, in honour of his memory and to continue his legacy we must declare war on corruption, as such we must ensure that all those who dragged his good name in the mud are brought to book and example is made out of them." Last week Wednesday, the DA in the Eastern Cape said that the Mandela Funeral Funds saga had brought shame upon the ANC while the ANC in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday called on Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, and state agencies to take action on the findings.  Meanwhile, the ANC in the Eastern Cape Legislature said that it has noted the findings and wil release a statement on its recommendations soon. Provincial Broadband contract The ANC PEC also said that newspaper reports on the provincial broadband contract are a cause for alarm and if true point to blatant act of maladministration. On Monday, the DA alsocalled on the Eastern Cape Provincial Treasury to conduct a forensic investigationinto the Office of the Premier with regard to the circumstances relating to a payment of R171-million  to Liquid Telecom for the provision of broadband services to the Eastern Cape. "The alleged conduct of the DG and the blatant disregard of National Treasury is indeed worrisome. "We call on the Premier to act decisively on the matter and if there is any truth to the allegations we are of the view the contract must be cancelled, followed by a full investigation and all those responsible be subjected to disciplinary proceedings," the ANC PEC said. 