 Reacting to Monday's Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayoral Committee reshuffle by Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, former Deputy Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, said the change was 'all bravado and no bite - all promise and no pitch'. The Mayoral Committee is the Executive wing of the institution chaired by the Executive Mayor. Trollip first appointed his Mayoral Committee on the 24th of August in 2016 after a Democratic Alliance (DA) -led coalition booted the African National Congress (ANC) from power in the 2016 Local Government Elections.  That Mayoral Committee included former Deputy Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, who was also the Member of the Mayoral Committee (MMC) for Public Health. He was fired from that position by Trollip early this year and was subsequently relieved of his duties as Deputy Mayor in August. "A third change in sixteen months in the Mayco of DA Executive Mayor Trollip," Bobani said in a statement. "While the DA is screaming foul about President Zuma’s cabinet reshuffles, the DA’s own NMB Mayor is playing musical chairs without as much as a squeak from the DA Leader. Enough said, I am quite certain. The inevitable conclusion needs not be rubbed in; it stings enough as it is." Bobani said that the DA demands one thing from its opposition and then does the exact opposite. "Like the DA’s demand for a secret ballot on the motion of no confidence against President Zuma on August 8, and the DA’s blunt refusal to allow a secret ballot on the motion of no confidence against Mayor Trollip on November 30," he added. "Obviously the DA knew what the outcome of a secret ballot would have been! The only argument possible against my conclusion is to allow a secret ballot next time around – and that next time is gaining force like a tsunami. "The DA demands one thing from its opposition and then does the exact opposite. "South Africans should realise that sheepishly following what so-called leaders who apparently know best say is often not the answer. Like 'buy Steinhoff; just look who is in charge', followed by the biggest corporate scandal in JSE history. "Trollip is shuffling like at a poker table. Nelson Mandela Bay voters deserve much, much better than the baasskap of  'I say so and that’s that!'" Bobani said that the DA was proving to be a disaster in the Bay. "All bravado and no bite. All promise and no pitch. "Working coalitions of mutual respect for the benefit of the people of Nelson Mandela Bay is what is needed, not party power by predominance," he described. 