 At an event officiated by Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayor, Cllr Athol Trollip, Goodyear South Africa officially unveiled its upgraded, state-of -the-art Uitenhage manufacturing facility. Goodyear has invested close to R1 Billion in the Uitenhage facility to improve the plant's high technology consumer tyre production capacity. By equipping the plant with the latest technologies and processes, local production capacity has been increased by 30%. Speaking at the event, newly-appointed Goodyear South Africa Group Managing Director, Darren Hayes-Powell stated, "This investment will position Goodyear as a leader in meeting the growing demand from vehicle manufacturers and the replacement market for Low Rolling Resistance tyres that promote fuel economy in vehicles together with the latest technology SUV and 4X4 tyres. "This is an important investment by Goodyear and is consistent with our strategy to serve the needs of our customers and the company's focus to invest for the future." Nomkhita Mona, CEO of the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber said, "In line with Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber's strategy towards becoming a competitive city, we see Goodyear South Africa's investment in technological advancement as a major step in the right direction. This state-of-the-art new plant puts Goodyear South Africa on par with global technological standards." The first tyre to be produced out of this state-of-the-art facility is the Wrangler All - Terrain Adventure tyre that is built with an ultra-strong, Kevlar® fiber overlay and reinforced by the company's DurawallT Technology, which improves resistance against punctures and cuts in the sidewall area. SUVs and 4x4s have become increasingly popular and their production has been rising sharply in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) since 2012. The Wrangler All-Terrain Adventure meets the demands of SUV and 4x4 drivers wanting to enjoy both off-road and on-road driving pleasure. By increasing the plant's capability, Goodyear South Africa is making a significant contribution towards manufacturing in this region. The tyre market in South Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa is expected to experience double-digit growth through 2020 led by the consumer segment. Image: Left to right - Lyndon Ownhouse, Celso Lahr, Oguzhan Alptekin, Nomkhita Mona, Athol Trollip, Darren Hayes-Powell, Wayne Nicholson.     