 As thousands of residents and visitors flock to the coast for the festive season, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) has urged the public to be cautious around all water, coastal and inland waters and swimming pools over this season. "NSRI are asking parents to make sure their children have responsible adult supervision around all water," said NSRI Spokeperson, Craig Lambinon. "We are urging the public to prepare, with a safety conscious mindset, before venturing to the beach, swimming pools, lagoons, lakes, rivers and dams." The warning comes following several incidents that ocurred over the weekend. In one such incident, which happened at St Francis Bay on Sunday, at 14h10, the NSRI St Francis Bay duty crew were activated following reports of a fisherman in trouble at Seals Car Park. "En route to the scene we found lifeguards also running towards the scene and we picked them up and proceeded to Seals car park where a fisherman had been swept off rocks by a wave and a friend had managed to rescue him and we found him on the rocks," described Sarah Smith, NSRI St Francis Bay station commander. The fisherman had reportedly been in the water for at least 15 minutes before being rescued by his friend and he had head, arm and leg lacerations and complaining of pain to his back and suspected non-fatal drowning symptoms. "Additional NSRI crew arrived on the scene and we stabilised the fisherman, a 35 year old male, and secured to a trauma board we carried him to the car park where by that stage Private Care ambulance services, the SA Police Services and EC Government Health EMS had arrived and he has been transported to hospital by Private Care ambulance in a stable condition," Smith said. "The unidentified friend who rescued him from the water and all services that responded are commended." The NSRI is urging people to take precaution. Basic Water Safety Tips from the NSRI are: 1. Children should have responsible adult supervision when in or near water. 2. Swim at beaches where and when lifeguards are on duty and swim between their flags. 3. Don’t drink alcohol before you swim 4. Never swim alone. Swim in groups. 5. Swimming pool fences and a child safe pool cover or net is vital at home swimming pools. 6. Know how to survive rip currents. 7. Don’t attempt a rescue yourself. 8. Do not let children use floating objects, toys or tyre tubes at the beach or on dams. as they may cause you to be blown to deep water by winds. 9. Do not be distracted by your cell phone. 10. Wear lifejackets  when you are on a boat 11. If your boat has a kill switch always wear it. 12. Paddlers and boaters should have NSRI’s free RSA App Safetrx cellphone app dowloaded and used on cell phones. 13. Wear bright clothing  14. Rock Anglers should wear lifejackets. 15. Have local emergency numbers programmed into your phone 16. Do not dive into water    