 The Dealer of the Year Awards are held annually, where office supplies store owners compete against 69 other outlets nationwide to win the coveted award. The award ceremony was held at the Lagoon Beach Hotel in Cape Town in October, where Valmac Office National was awarded as 2nd runner up Dealer Of The Year. Wihan Oosthuizen, Managing Director of Office National Africa said "We are proud of the Office National Africa members who receive these awards, not only are members rated according to specific criteria set by our offices, but also by our preferred suppliers. "Valmac Office National should be proud of their achievement and the success they have achieved over the years. The hard work of Milly Navsaria and his team definitely paid off.” Members are  also rated by the preferred suppliers to the group on the way that they conduct not only their interactions with staff, and the way that they run their business. From an Office National Group perspective, members are rated according to their participation in the groups offering, as well as marketing with focus on compliancy, branding, promotions, corporate governance, social responsibility, BEE rating, relationships and sales. Owner of Valmac Office National and member of the Office National Africa Group Milly Navsaria,  expressed his gratitude by saying "I am thankful to have received this coveted award. I would like to thank all the suppliers and support office staff who rated us so highly. "We appreciate the recognition, as receiving the Office National Dealer of the Year 2nd runner up award, truly is an honour. My team and I are pleased to see the fruits of our labour paying off. Thank you to all our valued customers as well, for their consistent support." For more information or online purchasing, please visit www.officenational.co.za . Valmac Office National is based in Port Elizabeth and services the greater NMBM metropolitan region and Eastern Cape. Visit www.valmacofficenational.co.za or email valmacsales@officenational.co.za or call 041 484 2728 to find out more. 