 Recognised as a legal giant who has made an immense contribution to the South African legal landscape, former Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke will be honoured at Nelson Mandela University’s Summer graduation, which starts on Thursday. Justice Moseneke – who is currently leading the key redress process aimed at bringing about a sense of healing to the families of more than 140 Life Esidimeni patients who died after being moved from the facility to various other under resourced and unkempt facilities – will receive an honorary Law doctorate from the institution on the morning of Thursday, 14 December 2017. He will be among 1728 graduates, including 31 doctorates, to be capped by outgoing Vice-Chancellor, Professor Derrick Swartz, at what will be the institution’s first graduation as Nelson Mandela University from 14 – 15 December. Graduation is always a significant celebration of the reward of years of hard work and dedication, with many graduates having overcome a myriad of challenges to be able to obtain their degrees. From seeing the first cohort of East and South African-German Centre of Excellence students cross the stage, to married couples together obtaining BTechs in the Information Technology field and a postgraduate qualification for one of the University’s first completely blind students, graduation brings with it a cocktail of emotions. A special Summer Graduation dinner will be held on the eve of the first session to honour the University’s doctoral graduates across the seven faculties as well as the honorary doctorate recipient. Nelson Mandela University’s graduation figures have grown over the last five years, from 5976 graduates in 2012 to the record 6786 in 2016. The latter were capped in April this year and included a record 95 doctorates. Fifteen doctorates will be awarded in the Faculty of Business and Economic Sciences (BES); five in the Science Faculty; four in the Law Faculty; three in Engineering, Built Environment and IT (EBEIT); two each in the Arts and Education faculties and one in the Health Sciences Faculty. The 2017 Summer graduation is a special one as it is the last one where Prof Swartz will cap students as Vice-Chancellor, after serving the institution for 10 years with distinction. Ms Santie Botha will also deliver her final speech as Nelson Mandela University Chancellor. 