 Speaking at the official closure of the 16-Days of No Violence Against Women and Children campaign in the Eastern Cape, at an event held at the Qumbu Community Hall in Zwartwater, a woman nicknamed 'Mother Lioness' or 'Lion Mama' after she stabbed a man to death and wounded two others after allegedly finding them gang-raping her 27-year-old daughter, said that her daughter still needs healing. The 56-year-old mother was arrested for killing Zamile Siyeka and injuring Xolisa Siyeka and Mncedisi Vuba in September, who, when she found them raping her daughter, also tried to overpower her. After an international outcry, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) decided to drop charges against her in October. The woman, who cannot be named to protect her identity as well as her daughter’s identity said their lives were changed by the traumatic incident. “I wish that the government would impose stiffer sentences on those, who abuse others as a warning to those, who might also be thinking of committing such crimes," she said. “I am strong and my daughter is strong, but she can’t stand crowds and still cannot talk about what happened to her." Mother Lioness, who is from Qumbu Village, in Zwartwater, added that her wish is for her daughter to be able to talk to someone about what happened to her. “She probably can join a group of survivors and maybe she will be able to open up to them and find healing,” she described. The woman was speaking as part of a Social Dialogue at Sdwadweni Methodist Church, in Zwartwater, on Thursday last week. According to the Eastern Cape Provincial Government, the Social Dialogues are a platform for deepening democracy whilst ensuring safer and crime-free communities - especially for women and children. "They assist Government to best understand the nature and root causes of the scourge of femicide, rape and violence against women and children, in order to inform its response and course of action," it described. The Eastern Cape has been plagued by 'new forms' of gender-based violence incidences, including cannibalismon women and children.  During this official closure of the 16-Days Campaign, the Provincial Government also rolled out the #365 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children. Rural Development and Agrarian Reform MEC, Mlibo Qoboshiyana held the fort as the acting Premier, during this significant occasion. He said that the 365 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children will focus on addressing the raping of women, especially the elderly, in the rural Eastern Cape. 