THIS year, 16 spectacular finalists have been carefully selected for the Businesswomen s Association of Port Elizabeth (BWA) Investec Regional Business Achiever Awards (RBAA).The well-known Bay businesswomen are finalists in six categories and now enter an independent and audited judging process before the winners are announced at a celebratory gala dinner on Tuesday, June 13.The prestigious annual Awards acknowledge the economic and social contribution of female entrepreneurs and professionals in the greater Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB) region. The Awards are made up of six categories: Emerging Entrepreneur, Entrepreneur, Social Entrepreneur, Corporate, Professional and Government. Entrants need not be members of the BWA and entries are welcome from as far afield as the Garden Route, Graaff-Reinet and Grahamstown.In congratulating the finalists, BWA PE Chairwoman Michelle Brown said the prestigious awards were unique in the sense that it annually gave acknowledgement and recognition to the incredible work done by local businesswomen. Each year we are amazed at the calibre of the nominations and, in particular, the eventual category finalists who are all already winners in their own right. The businesswomen in our region have incredible journeys in building their careers, which serve to inspire us all as a community of businesswomen, she said.The 2017 RBAA finalists are:EMERGING ENTREPRENEUR:ENTREPRENEUR:SOCIAL ENTREPRENEUR:PROFESSIONAL:CORPORATE:GOVERNMENT:A wholly independent panel of judges, made up of a broad cross-section of Nelson Mandela Bay leaders in business, government and civil society, will interview and select a winner in each of the six categories. Brown said the engaging RBAA participation process not only recognised but also enriched the careers of finalists and winners, many of whom gained the confidence to achieve even greater success. Winners will be announced at a glamorous gala dinner at the Boardwalk Convention Centre on Tuesday, June 13. Make sure to book your seat early for this highlight on the Bay s social calendar, as seats sell out quickly.This year s keynote speaker has been confirmed as entrepreneur, television producer and philanthropist Basetsana Kumalo. Affectionately known as Bassie , this inspirational businesswoman is a highly driven serial entrepreneur, investor, mother and wife with a strong sense of community development.She is the darling of the South African media industry, with an impressive track record of starting and managing businesses over the past 20 years. She has produced television programmes such as Top Billing, Pasella, Date My Family, Our Perfect Wedding, Diski Divas just to mention a few and is the Executive Chairperson at Tswelopele Productions.Further information and bookings for the RBAA gala event can be obtained from Samantha Bowers at the BWA PE office: email [email protected] , or go to the BWAPE Facebook page for further details. Image: INSPIRATIONAL ALL-ROUNDER Basetsana Kumalo has been confirmed as the key speaker for this year s celebratory BWA Investec Regional Business Achiever Awards Dinner. The glamorous event will be held at the Boardwalk Convention Centre in June, when winners in each of the six RBAA categories will be announced. Photo Credit: http://basetsanakumalo.com/