Continuous enhanced police visibility and high density patrols in focus areas in the Mount Road policing cluster has resulted in the arrest of a 49-year-old man and the confiscation of drugs and suspected stolen property."It is alleged that on Saturday, at about 19:00, members from the Crime Combatting Unit of the Operational Command Centre (OCC) were patrolling in Burt Street in Newton Park when they noticed that the main gate at a house opened," sai police. "Immediately, the patrolling officers stopped and went to investigate."A man was found in the yard. The officers identified themselves to him and he started to run for the open gate. As he ran, he dropped something on the ground."It was later established that it was drugs."He was apprehended. Upon searching his flatlet and a storeroom at the back of the house, police discovered drugs (cocaine and tik), cell phones, cameras, video cameras, power tools as well as a lot of other equipment," police added."The total estimated value of the cocaine and tik is R1 400 000, suspected stolen goods is R30 000 and a substantial amount of cash."The drugs were found hidden everywhere in the house, in trees and pipes outside as well as in the vehicle. Police also confiscated an air ticket destination Lagos. The man was arrested and detained for dealing in drugs and possession of suspected stolen property."The Acting Cluster Commander for Mount Road Cluster, Brig Keith Meyer, lauded the members from the Operational Command Centre for their vigilance and the arrest and is urging the communities to report any suspicious activity in their neighbourhood as "crime intelligence is vital if we need to catch the drug lords. Striving towards a drug free society is something we need to work on together.""Port Elizabeth is not a drug haven and we will continue in our efforts in the battle against drug trafficking and substance abuse."We are appealing to the public to reject any goods that a person may suspect to be stolen and report the matter to the police. The public is advised not to buy suspected stolen property. Buying suspected stolen property is an offence and is also punishable by law," he said."It is alleged that on Saturday, at about 19:00, members from the Crime Combatting Unit of the Operational Command Centre (OCC) were patrolling in Burt Street in Newton Park when they noticed that the main gate at a house opened," sai police. "Immediately, the patrolling officers stopped and went to investigate."A man was found in the yard. The officers identified themselves to him and he started to run for the open gate. As he ran, he dropped something on the ground."It was later established that it was drugs."He was apprehended. Upon searching his flatlet and a storeroom at the back of the house, police discovered drugs (cocaine and tik), cell phones, cameras, video cameras, power tools as well as a lot of other equipment," police added."The total estimated value of the cocaine and tik is R1 400 000, suspected stolen goods is R30 000 and a substantial amount of cash."The drugs were found hidden everywhere in the house, in trees and pipes outside as well as in the vehicle. Police also confiscated an air ticket destination Lagos. The man was arrested and detained for dealing in drugs and possession of suspected stolen property."The Acting Cluster Commander for Mount Road Cluster, Brig Keith Meyer, lauded the members from the Operational Command Centre for their vigilance and the arrest and is urging the communities to report any suspicious activity in their neighbourhood as "crime intelligence is vital if we need to catch the drug lords. Striving towards a drug free society is something we need to work on together.""Port Elizabeth is not a drug haven and we will continue in our efforts in the battle against drug trafficking and substance abuse."We are appealing to the public to reject any goods that a person may suspect to be stolen and report the matter to the police. The public is advised not to buy suspected stolen property. Buying suspected stolen property is an offence and is also punishable by law," he said.