 Three additional local organisations have received funding towards furthering the good work they do in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro. The Volkswagen for Good Initiative handed over cheques to the value of R506 600 to the three deserving local charities bringing the total amount disbursed by Volkswagen in 2017 to local charities and non-profit organisations to just over R2.8 million. The three beneficiaries are Young Entrepreneurs Foundation, PE Mental Health Society and St. Francis Hospice. Each organisation will receive a portion of the donation from Volkswagen. The Young Entrepreneurs Foundation (YE) teach children, age 7-15 years vital entrepreneurial and financial literacy skills. This helps the children start and grow their own micro-enterprises in a fun and experiential way. The programmes run over 30 weeks and schools are utilised as study centres. The classes are offered by YE accredited Facilitators. One of their goals is to inspire youth and change their lives. The Port Elizabeth Mental Health Society has been in existence since 1939. The organization renders a holistic service to people with disabilities and psychiatric illnesses. Their services are available to all people in the Nelson Mandela Metro irrespective of their personal circumstances. The programmes create awareness of mental health issues and are discussed in the form of workshops in order to change the mind-set of the general public. The programmes and workshops help decrease the levels of vulnerability and marginalization that people with disabilities live with. The St. Francis Hospice was established in 1986 as a faith based palliative care hospice. The Hospice provides a holistic service of palliative care to short life expectancy patients by filling the gap in terminal service care through the offer of medical and nursing care as well as psycho-social support. "I am proud that VWSA through the Volkswagen for Good initiative is able to play a part in the difference that these organisations make in the lives of the residents of the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro." said Thomas Schaefer, Volkswagen Group South Africa Chairman and Managing Director. Image: Volkswagen continues to support local NGO's. From L-R:  Remmington Zokufa (Board of Trustees - Volkswagen Community Trust), Limeez Arends (PE Mental Health), Trevor Wiblin (St. Francis Hospice), Ansulene Prinsloo (Young Entrepreneurs Foundation) and Nkosinathi Clay (Community Trust) 