 Vistarus Mission Station in Port Elizabeth received a welcome hand up from Rafi’s Appliances and Mattresses on Thursday last week, after it was nominated in a local radio station competition as the charity or organisation most deserving of a brand new Defy washing machine. Kingfisher FM, a local Christian community radio station, held an SMS competition over the month of May, asking listeners to vote for an organisation, which they believed was having a significant impact on the local community. With well over 200 nominations, the Vistarus Mission Station, whose aim is to uplift the broken and homeless, and rebuild body, soul and spirit through the Gospel, was chosen as the proud recipient of a brand new Defy 6kg front loader washing machine. Vistarus’ founders, Kobus and Lynette Jacobs, met with Rafi for the first time at the radio station on Thursday, where the group discussed the great need the washing machine would fufil. Vistarus, which was founded in 1998, operates out of the old Railway Hostel in Sydenham, Port Elizabeth, and houses close to 400 drug-addicted or destitute families. The facilities have expanded over the years to house a well-stocked library, a doctor’s surgery, dental assistance, a crèche, a clothing bank, counselling facilities, a laundry room and a kitchen that prepares on average 28-thousand meals a month. Of the many SMS nominations which were received, one in particular spoke of the life-changing impact the organisation was having on the community. Written by former addict Sean Swart, it spoke of how the mission station had transformed his life and reads as follows: “I nominate Vistarus - five years ago I arrived at Vista addicted to 'tik', life shattered after great rebellion, dying of stage 4 AIDS. I was without God, without hope, just waiting to die. Here at Vista, despite giving management endless uphill and challenges Jesus broke through my pride, unbelief and fear. I live now, years later, because He does." "Three other missions turned me away in P.E. He used Vista as the place to save, heal, deliver, restore life and dignity. So, yeah, a wash machine to help cope with the 450 residents/dependants washing needs," Swart wrote. Vistarus Mission Station is self-sufficient, but there remains an ongoing need for counsellors. If you feel led to offer assistance, or would like to contact the mission station, please visit www.vistarus.co.za. Image: Vistarus founders, Kobus and Lynnette Jacobs with Rafi of Rafi's Appliances and Mattresses, who has given them the brand new washing machine. 