The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Makana Local Municipality on Thursday said that it has laid a complaint with the South African Police Services in Grahamstown, following slow progress in prosecuting those shamed in the municipality's Kabuso Forensic Investigation, which took place between 2011 and 2015. "The investigation report, highlighting activities of the alleged acts of corruption recorded, contained no indication of urgency in charging those, who were implicated in the report," said Brian Jackson - a DA Makana Local Municipality Councillor."The initial Kabuso Report highlighted alleged corrupt activities of senior administrative staff and ANC councillors of Makana Municipality, which included the former Mayor, Zamuxolo Peter. "Thereafter, two new versions of the report surfaced; which now excluded certain officials and ruled out the former Mayor." Jackson said that the former Mayor decided to overlook the initial report and go with the two unofficial reports. "The mayor failed to account to council for his implications of acts that were recorded; despite being requested to do so," he added. "The two newer versions of the report are not considered to be legally binding. And no attempt from the Municipality, in ensuring that those implicated in the initial report, has been pursued. "My colleague and DA Caucus Leader in Makana Municipality, Mlindi Nhanha, warned in every council meeting that unless action was taken by the Municipality or the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA), the DA would then take action. We got the impression that certain ANC officials leaned towards the issue rather being shelved and forgotten about." Jackson said that the DA will not tolerate corruption nor any official, who commits it. "We will continue to strive to root out corruption and make it clear that Makana Municipality public representatives are there to serve residents; not the other way around," he described. "The SAPS needs to abide by the final Kabuso Report, which was released in 2015 and hold the implicated officials accountable for their abuse of power to make themselves rich; at the expense of Grahamstown, Alicedale, Salem, Seven Fountains, Riebeeck East and Fort Brown residents."