Nelson Mandela Bay Deputy Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, on Wednesday said the allegations used as the basis for his sacking from the Metro's Health Directorate by Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, are false and said that his future at City Hall is in the hands of coalition leaders not the Mayor. Bobani is Deputy Mayor through a coalition agreement signed between the United Democratic Movement (UDM) and the Democratic Alliance (DA) and other smaller parties to effectively oust the African National Congress (ANC) after the DA, represented by Trollip, failed to get an outright win of the Metro in last year's Local Government Elections. On Tuesday, Trollip announced that he had sacked Bobani as the political head of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Health Directorate. He said that the Directorate has been of concern for a number a months given serious allegations of maladministration and impropriety, all of which are being investigated."Furthermore, Cllr Bobani's public behaviour and conduct has been unacceptable as a member of my Mayoral Committee and not consistent with what is expected of a Deputy Mayor," Trollip said."I have attempted on numerous occasions to address Cllr Bobani's conduct through the UDM's National Leadership. Cllr Bobani has gone too far with his continued unsubstantiated defamatory remarks, spurious public statements and recently laid criminal charges against senior executive administrators."In an interview with the SABC, Bobani said that; "It's a lie, you can even go to the workers and ask them what we have actually done. You can go to the South African Municipal Workers' Union ( SAMWU ) and ask them about my intervention - everything [that has been highlighted by Trollip], I can tell you that it is a lie. "But I am not going to get into that. "I so wish that the Executive Mayor would have written me a letter and say to me; 'Deputy Mayor, can you answer on these allegations' - I used to do that. He used to write me letters asking about things and I would reply to him and tell him everything. "So, even on this one, before he went to the media, he could have written to me and said 'Deputy Mayor, can you can you answer on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5?' I could have given him the best answers like I used to." The Deputy Mayor maintained that there is no basis for his sacking and his possible removal as the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Deputy Executive Mayor - if Trollip would have his way, as he has "delivered the best for our citizens". Asked about the future of their working relationship - in light of the recent developments, Bobani said; "I don't know - he is the Executive Mayor and I am the Deputy, and we are colleagues. I think let's leave that to our principals."On my side, I can assure you, I do not know about this thing of sour relations. He is the Executive Mayor, he has his duties, and I am the Deputy Mayor, we have a duty to ensure that we are actually servicing our citizens."So, it's not about friendships or sour relations, it's about professional ethics and how we are representing our parties. "I am here in my office and about whether I will be replaced that is matter for our coalition leaders to discuss."On Wednesday, UDM leader, Bantu Holomisa, accused Trollip of neglecting the coalition agreement and acting unilaterally in seeking to remove Bobani from office."We agreed that when there are problems, these are the steps that we will follow - so he must just swallow his pride," he said.