Vodacom and the Eastern Cape Chamber of Business (ECCOB) have announced a new partnership to assist with the digitalisation of SMEs in the province.At a ceremony in East London on Tuesday, an agreement was signed between the two parties which will see tailored SME services made available to small businesses through the ECCOB.The partnership has officially been sanctioned by the Eastern Cape MEC for Economic Development as well the Premier of the Province. The Eastern Cape is the first province to enter into a partnership of this nature with Vodacom. Small businesses in the region will now be able to fully digitalise their services. Over and above faster internet connections and mobile and broadband services; local businesses will have first access to trial various enterprise mobility solutions such as Business Booster, a mobile platform that allows tradesmen and professionals to quote, invoice and accept payments while on the job. Vuyani Jarana, Chief Officer at Vodacom Business, says: Vodacom and the Eastern Cape Chamber of Business share a common goal to support SMEs in the province. The digital economy is the single most important driver of growth, innovation and competitiveness on the continent and it holds huge potential for South Africa. Small businesses must embrace the digital economy and our partnership with the ECCOB marks the beginning of an exciting digital journey. Vodacom will provide resources to facilitate the training and adoption of SME services to the Chamber and its members.The Eastern Cape Chamber of Business Secretary General Andile Nontso says: The Eastern Cape Chamber of Business has partnered with Vodacom to promote digital transformation amongst its members. We are confident that this partnership will go a long way towards promoting the growth of small businesses in the Eastern Cape, which in turn will boost the regional economy. The SME supportive technology is a fixed solution which is available to all network subscribers. Enterprise mobility applications and cloud solutions will enable SMEs to operate from anywhere and at any time. Jarana concludes: Our ultimate goal is to make all ICT and operational requirements a seamless process for small businesses. This will enable them to focus their attention on their core business without any unnecessary distractions. Other services which will be offered through the Chamber include One Net Business, a platform which provides customers with an intelligent voice solution through an advanced telephony offering.It allows customers to integrate and link their company mobile phones and land lines, providing a converged fixed and mobile solution.Eastern Cape businesses who would like to find out more about the offering can contact Bukeka Soyizwapi at the ECCOB on 047 531 4979 / [email protected] . 